, THE STATES ALLY UKRAINE.
REVERSE THE NATION'S EMBRACE OF
THE WEST AND TO FULFILL PUTIN'S
DESIRE TO HAVE A RUSSIAN EMPIRE.
IN THE FOLLOWING YEARS, 14,000
UKRAINIANS DIED AS THEY BATTLED
SUPERIOR RUSSIAN FORCES. EARLIER
THIS YEAR, VOLOLDYMYR ZELENSKY
WAS ELECTED PRESIDENT TO UKRAINE
TO END CONFLICT AND CORRUPTION.
HE WAS A NEWCOMER TO POLITICS
AND IMMEDIATELY SOUGHT TO
ESTABLISH A RELATIONSHIP WITH
UKRAINE'S MOST POWERFUL PATRON,
THE UNITED STATES. THE QUESTIONS
PRESENTED BY THIS IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY WHETHER THEY SOUGHT TO
EXPLOIT THE ALLIES VULNERABILITY
AND INVITE UKRAINE'S
INTERFERENCE IN OUR ELECTIONS
WHETHER PRESIDENT TRUMP START TO
CONDITION THE ACT SUCH AS THE
WHITE HOUSE MEETING OR MILITARY
ASSISTANCE AND THE WILLINGNESS
TO ASSIST WITH TWO POLITICAL
INVESTIGATIONS THAT WOULD HELP
THE REELECTION CAMPAIGN. IF
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID EITHER,
WHETHER SUCH AN ABUSE OF HIS
POWER IS COMPATIBLE WITH THE
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENCY. THE
MATTER IS AS SIMPLE AND AS
TERRIBLE AS THAT. OUR ANSWER TO
THESE QUESTIONS WILL AFFECT
NOT ONLY THIS PRESIDENCY BUT THE
FUTURE OF THE PRESIDENCY ITSELF
AND WHAT KIND OF CONDUCT OR
MISCONDUCT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
MAY COME TO EXPECT FROM THEIR
COMMANDER IN CHIEF. THERE ARE
FEW ACTIONS AS COST CONTROL IS
ACTIONS OF THE PRESIDENT. THE
FOUNDERS DID NOT INTEND THE
IMPEACHMENT BE FORD MERE
DIFFERENCES IN POLICY BUT THEY
ALSO MADE A ACCOUNT TO SHOW
PROCESS THAT CONGRESS MUST
UTILIZE AS NECESSARY. THE FACTS
IN THE PRESENT INQUIRY ARE NOT
SERIOUSLY CONTESTED AND
BEGINNING IN JANUARY OF THIS
YEAR, THE PERSONAL ATTORNEY,
RUDY GIULIANI INVESTIGATED
CHARISMA, THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST
NATURAL GAS PRODUCER IN THE
BIDENS SINCE VICE PRESIDENT JOE
BIDEN WAS SEEN AS A STRONG
POTENTIAL COMPETITOR TO TRUMP.
THEY BUMPED CONSPIRACY THAT IT
WAS UKRAINE AND NOT RUSSIA
THAT HACKED THE ELECTIONS AND IT
WAS STATED UNEQUIVOCALLY THAT IT
WAS RUSSIA AND NOT UKRAINE THAT
INTERFERED IN OUR ELECTION.
GIULIANI BELIEVED THIS
CONSPIRACY THEORY REFERRED TO AS
CROWD STRIKE AND THAT WOULD AID
HIS CLIENTS REELECTION. HE ALSO
CONDUCTED A SMEAR CAMPAIGN
AGAINST THE U. S. AMBASSADOR TO
UKRAINE AND ON APRIL 29, AN
OFFICIAL TOLD HER THAT ALTHOUGH
SHE HAD DONE NOTHING WRONG,
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD LOST
CONFIDENCE IN HER. WITH THE
SIDELINING OF HER, THE SIMON WAS
SET FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF A
REGULAR CHANNEL IN WHICH
GIULIANI AND OTHERS AND
INFLUENTIAL DONORS NOW SERVING
TO THE EUROPEAN UNION THAT
INVENTS THE PRESIDENTS PERSONAL
AND POLITICAL INTERESTS. HER
REPLACEMENT IS A WEST POINT
GRADUATE AND VIETNAM VETERAN.
AND THEY PUSHED BACK WITH
SECRETARY KENT AND OTHERS FOR
THE U. S. GOVERNMENT ACTIONS AND
FUNDING ON THE PERFORMANCE OF
POLITICAL
FAVORS BY THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT. FAVOR IS INTENDED
FOR PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT WOULD
UNDERMINE OUR SECURITY AND OUR
ELECTIONS. SEVERAL KEY EVENTS IN
THIS GAME TOOK PLACE IN THE
MONTH OF JULY AND ON JULY 10,
THE AMBASSADOR FORMED A GROUP OF
OFFICIALS MEETING AT THE WHITE
HOUSE THAT ACCORDING TO THE
CHIEF OF STAFF, THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING DESPERATELY SOUGHT BY
THE UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT WITH
TRUMP WOULD HAPPEN ONLY IF
UKRAINE UNDERTOOK AN
INVESTIGATION INTO THE ENERGY
SECTOR WHICH WAS UNDERSTOOD TO
MEAN CHARISMA AND SPECIFICALLY
THE BIDENS. NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR ENDED THE MEETING AND
SAID AFTERWARDS THAT HE WOULD
NOT BE "PART OF WHATEVER DRUG
DEAL
YOU ARE COOKING UP ON THIS." A
WEEK LATER, ON JULY 18, THE
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE OFFICE
MANAGEMENT AND THE AGENCY THAT
OVERSEES FEDERAL STANDINGS
ANNOUNCED THAT MULVANEY AT THE
DIRECTION OF THE PRESIDENT WAS
FREEZING NEARLY $400 MILLION IN
SECURITY SYSTEM WITH
WHAT WAS APPROPRIATE BY CONGRESS
AND THE ENTIRETY OF THE U. S.
NATIONAL SECURITY ESTABLISHMENT
SUPPORTED. ONE WEEK AFTER THAT,
DONALD TRUMP WOULD HAVE THE
INFAMOUS JULY 25 PHONE CALL WITH
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT ZELENSKY.
TRUMP COMPLAINED THAT THE
RELATIONSHIP  WITH UKRAINE HAD
NOT BEEN RECIPROCAL AND LATER
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY THANKS  THE
PRESIDENT AND SAYS THEY ARE
READY TO PURCHASE MORE JAVELINS,
AN ANTITANK THAT WAS TO FURTHER
RUSSIAN MILITARY ACTION. TRUMPS
IMMEDIATE RESPONSE WAS
, "I WOULD LIKE YOU TO DO US A
FAVOR, THOUGH."
THEY WANT TO INVESTIGATE THE
CONSPIRACY THEORY AND EVEN MORE
OMINOUSLY, LOOK INTO THE BIDENS.
NEITHER OF THESE INVESTIGATIONS
WAS IN THE U. S. NATIONAL
INTEREST. NEITHER WAS PART OF
THE OFFICIAL PREPARATORY
MATERIAL FOR THE CALL. BOTH
HOWEVER WERE IN DONALD TRUMP'S
PERSONAL INTEREST IN ANY
INTEREST OF HIS 2020 REELECTION
CAMPAIGN IN THE UKRAINIAN
PRESIDENT KNEW ABOUT BOTH IN
ADVANCE. OTHERS HAVE BEEN
PRESSING UKRAINE FOR WEEKS ABOUT
INVESTIGATIONS INTO THE 2016
ELECTION AMBER'S MOTHER AND THE
BIDENS. AFTER THE CALL, MULTIPLE
INDIVIDUALS WERE CONCERNED
ENOUGH TO REPORTED TO THE
NATIONAL SECURITY'S TOP LAWYER.
THE WHITE HOUSE WITHIN TAKE THE
EXTRAORDINARY STEP OF MOVING THE
CALL RECORD TO A HIGHLY
CLASSIFIED SERVER EXCLUSIVELY
RESERVED FOR THE MOST SENSITIVE
INTELLIGENCE MATTERS. IN THE
WEEKS THAT FOLLOWED, AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR LEARNED NEW FACTS THAT
WOULD BE DESCRIBED AS BECOMING
MORE INSIDIOUS. TAYLOR TESTED
AND SAYING ARE WE NOW SAYING
THAT SECURITY ASSISTANCE IN
WHITE HOUSE MEETINGS ARE
CONDITIONS ON INVESTIGATIONS?
IT KEPT GETTING MORE INSIDIOUS
AND MR. TAYLOR WHO TOOK NOTES OF
THE CONVERSATION SAID THE
INVESTOR TOLD HIM THAT
EVERYTHING WAS DEPENDENT ON THE
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT
INVESTIGATIONS INCLUDING
SECURITY ASSISTANCE. PRESIDENT
TRUMP WANTED PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
IN A PUBLIC  BOX. PRESIDENT
TRUMP IS A BUSINESSMAN
AND WHEN A BUSINESSMAN IS ABOUT
TO SIGN A CHECK TO SOMEONE WHO
OWES HIM SOMETHING, THE
BUSINESSMAN ASKS THAT PERSON TO
PAY UP BEFORE SIGNING THE CHECK.
IN THIS ONE DECLARATION AFTER
TAYLOR'S TESTIMONY, SOLOMON
WOULD ADMIT TO A MEETING IN
WARSAW, "A RESUMPTION OF USAID
WOULD LIKELY NOT OCCUR UNTIL
UKRAINE PROVIDED THE PUBLIC
ANTICORRUPTION STATEMENT THAT WE
HAVE BEEN DISCUSSING FOR MANY
WEEKS." THE PRESIDENT CHIEF OF
STAFF CONFIRMED THAT THEY
WITHHELD AID AND WHEN THEY WERE
ASKED PUBLICLY ABOUT IT, HIS
ANSWER WAS BREATHTAKING. "WE DO
THAT ALL THE TIME WITH FORM
POLICY,
" HE SAID. "I HAVE NEWS FOR
EVERYBODY, GET OVER IT. THEY
WILL BE INFLUENCING FOREIGN
POLICY. THAT IS GOING TO
HAPPEN." THE VIDEO THAT
CONFESSION IS
PLAYING FOR ALL TO SEE. SOME
ARGUED THAT THE AIDE WAS
ULTIMATELY RELEASED AND THAT IS
TRUE.
BUT, ONLY AFTER CONGRESS BEGAN
AN INVESTIGATION AND ONLY AFTER
THE LAWYERS LEARNED OF A
WHISTLEBLOWER COMPLAINT AND ONLY
AFTER MEMBERS OF CONGRESS BEGAN
ASKING UNCOMFORTABLE QUESTIONS
ABOUT QUID PRO QUOS. THE SCHEME
TO CONDITION OFFICIAL ACTS OR
TAXPAYER FUNDING TO OBTAIN A
PERSONAL BENEFIT HAS NOT BECOME
LESS ODIOUS BECAUSE IT IS
DISCOVERED BEFORE IT IS FULLY
CONSUMMATED BUT IN FACT, THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE HAD BEEN
DELAYED SO LONG THAT IT WOULD
TAKE ANOTHER ACT OF CONGRESS TO
ENSURE THAT IT COULD STILL GO
OUT. THAT OVAL OFFICE MEETING
THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY SOUGHT
STILL HAS NOT HAPPENED. WE HAVE
LEARNED
A GREAT DEAL ABOUT THESE EVENTS
IN THE LAST SEVERAL WEEKS BUT
THERE ARE STILL MISSING PIECES.
THE PRESIDENT HAS INSTRUCTED THE
STATE DEPARTMENT AND OTHER
AGENCIES TO IGNORE SUBPOENAS FOR
DOCUMENTS. HE HAS INSTRUCTED
WITNESSES TO HAVE SUBPOENAS AND
REFUSED TO APPEAR AND HE HAS
SUGGESTED THAT THOSE EXPOSED
WRONGDOING SHOULD BE TREATED
LIKE TRAITORS AND SPIES. THESE
ACTIONS WILL FORCE CONGRESS TO
CONSIDER AS IT DID WITH RESIDENT
NEXT AND WHETHER TRUMPS
OBSTRUCTION OF THE
CONSTITUTIONAL DUTIES
CONSTITUTED ADDITIONAL GROUNDS
FOR IMPEACHMENT. IF THE
PRESIDENT CAN SIMPLY REFUSE ALL
OVERSIGHT AND PARTICULARLY IN
THE CONTEXT OF AN IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDING, THE BALANCE OF POWER
BETWEEN OUR TWO BRANCHES OF
GOVERNMENT WILL BE IRREVOCABLY
ALTERED.
THAT IS NOT WHAT THE FOUNDERS
INTENDED AND THE PROSPECTS FOR
FURTHER CORRUPTION AND ABUSE OF
POWER WITH THIS ADMINISTRATION
OR ANY OTHER WILL BE
EXPONENTIALLY INCREASED. THIS IS
WHAT WE BELIEVE THE TESTIMONY
WILL SHOW BOTH AS TO THE
PRESIDENT'S CONDUCT AND AS TO
HIS OBSTRUCTION OF CONGRESS. THE
ISSUE THAT WE CONFRONT IS THE
ONE POSED BY THE PRESIDENT
ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF WHEN HE
CHALLENGED AMERICANS TO GET OVER
IT. IF WE FIND THAT THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
ABUSED HIS POWER AND INVITED
INTERFERENCE INTO OUR ELECTIONS
OR SOUGHT TO CONDITION OR COERCE
OR EXTORT OR BRIBE AN ALLY INTO
LOOKING INTO INVESTIGATIONS FOR
HIS REELECTION CAMPAIGN AND DID
SO WHY WITHHOLDING ACTS, WITH
NEEDED MILITARY AID, MUST WE
SIMPLY GET OVER IT? IS THIS WHAT
AMERICA SHOULD NOW EXPECT FROM
THEIR PRESIDENT? IF THIS IS NOT
IMPEACHABLE CONDUCT, WHAT IS? AS
THE OATH OF OFFICE ITSELF
REQUIRING THAT OUR LAWS BE
FAITHFULLY EXECUTED THAT OUR
PRESIDENT DEFENDED THE
CONSTITUTION THAT BALANCES THE
POWERS OF ITS BRANCHES PUTTING
AMBITION AGAINST AMBITION, WE
HAVE NO MONARCHY
BUT STILL HAVE MEETINGS. THESE
ARE THE QUESTIONS WE MUST ASK
AND ANSWER WITHOUT RANK IF WE
CAN AND WITHOUT DELAY REGARDLESS
AND WITHOUT PARTY FAVOR AND
WITHOUT PREJUDICE IF WE ARE TRUE
TO OUR RESPONSIBILITIES.
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN WAS ASKED WHAT
KIND OF A COUNTRY AMERICA WAS TO
BECOME. A REPUBLIC HE ANSWERED
IF YOU CAN KEEP IT. FUNDAMENTAL
ISSUE RAISED BY IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY INTO THE HOLIDAY TRUMP
IS AND WE KEEP IT AND I
RECOGNIZE ANY REMARKS YOU MAY
WISH TO MAKE.
>> THANK YOU, GENTLEMEN. AND
HOPE AND OPEN HEARING, THE
DEMOCRATS ENGAGED IN THE LAST
DITCH EFFORT TO CONVINCE THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP IS A RUSSIAN AGENT. THIS
WAS A THREE YEAR LONG OPERATION
BY THE DEMOCRATS IN THE CURRENT
MEDIA IN PERSON BUREAUCRATS TO
OVERTURN THE RESULTS OF A 2016
ELECTION. AFTER THE SPECTACULAR
IMPLOSION OF RUSSIAN HOPES ON
JULY 24 IN WHICH THEY SPENT
YEARS ANNOUNCING ANY HOW CAN
THAT SHOOK HANDS WITH THE
RUSSIAN AND ON JULY 25, THEY
TURNED ON A DIME AND NOW CLAIM
THAT THE REAL MALFEASANCE IS
REPUBLICAN FEELINGS WITH UKRAINE
AND IN THE BLINK OF AN EYE, WE
ARE ASKED TO SIMPLY FORGET ABOUT
DEMOCRATS ON THIS COMMITTEE AND
CLAIMING THEY HAD MORE THAN
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE OF
COLLUSION BETWEEN PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND RUSSIANS. WE SHOULD
FORGET ABOUT THEM READING
FABRICATIONS OF RUSHING
COLLUSION FROM THE DOSSIER INTO
THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. WE
SHOULD ALSO FORGET ABOUT THEM
TRYING TO OBTAIN NUDE PICTURES
OF TRUMP
WHO PRETENDED TO BE UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS. WE SHOULD FORGET
ABOUT THEM. MAKING A FALSE STORY
TO CNN WHILE HE WAS STILL
TESTIFYING TO THE CLAIMING THAT
DONALD TRUMP JR. WAS COLLUDING
WITH WIKILEAKS AND FORGET ABOUT
COUNTLESS OTHER DECEPTIONS LARGE
AND SMALL THAT MAKE THEM THE
LAST PEOPLE ON EARTH WITH THE
CREDIBILITY
FOR THE PREPOSTEROUS ACCUSATIONS
OF THEIR POLITICAL OPPONENT.
YET, NOW, HERE WE ARE. WE ARE
SUPPOSED TO TAKE THESE PEOPLE AT
FACE VALUE WHEN THEY TROT OUT A
NEW BATCH OF ALLEGATIONS AND
ANYONE FAMILIAR WITH THE WAR
AGAINST PRESIDENT TRUMP WOULD
NOT BE SURPRISED TO SEE ALL THE
TYPICAL SIGNS THAT THIS IS A
CAREFULLY ORCHESTRATED MEDIA
SMEAR CAMPAIGN. FOR EXAMPLE
, AFTER BROWN PUBLICLY THAT
IMPEACHMENT REQUIRES BIPARTISAN
SUPPORT, DEMOCRATS ARE PUSHING
IMPEACHMENT FORWARD WITHOUT THE
BACKING OF THE SENIOR
REPUBLICAN. THE WITNESS IS
DEEMED SUITABLE WERE PUT THROUGH
A CLOSED DOOR PROCESS IN A
CULTLIKE ATMOSPHERE IN THE
BASEMENT OF THE CAPITOL WHERE
DEMOCRATS CONDUCTED SECRET
DEPOSITIONS AND RELEASED A FLOOD
OF MISLEADING AND ONE-SIDED
LEAKS AND LATER SELECTIVELY
RELEASE TRANSCRIPTS IN A HIGHLY
PHASED MANNER.
VIOLATING THEIR OWN GUIDELINES,
DEMOCRATS REDACTED FROM THE
TRANSCRIPT THE NAME OF THE
CONTRACTOR FOR THE DEMOCRATIC
NATIONAL COMMITTEE WHO WORKED
WITH UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS TO
COLLECT DIRT ON THE CAMPAIGN.
THE DEMOCRATS REJECTED MOST OF
THE WITNESSES REQUEST RESULTING
IN A ONE-SIDED PROCESS FOR THE
CRUCIAL WITNESSES ON THE
PLATFORM IF THE TESTIMONY DOES
NOT SUPPORT THE ABSURD
ACCUSATION. NOTABLY, THEY ARE
TRYING TO IMPEACH THE PRESIDENT
FOR INQUIRING ABOUT HUNTER
BIDEN'S ACTIVITIES. IF THEY
REFUSE OUR REQUEST TO HEAR FROM
BIDEN HIMSELF. THE WHISTLEBLOWER
WAS ACKNOWLEDGED TO HAVE A BIAS
AGAINST PRESIDENT TRUMP AND HIS
ATTORNEY HAD TO AGAINST THE
PRESIDENT AND CALLED FOR HIS
IMPEACHMENT. JUST WEEKS AFTER
THE ELECTION. AT A PRIOR HEARING
, DEMOCRATS ON THE COMMITTEE
RIGHT OUT A PURELY FICTITIOUS
RENDITION OF THE PRESENCE PHONE
CALL WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AND
THEY CLEARLY FOUND THE REAL
CONVERSATION  TO BE INSUFFICIENT
FOR THE IMPEACHMENT NARRATIVE.
THEY JUST MADE UP A NEW ONE.
MOST EGREGIOUSLY, STAFF OF THE
DEMOCRATS ON THIS COMMITTEE HAD
DIRECT DISCUSSION WITH THE
WHISTLEBLOWER FOR HIS OR HER
COMPLAINT THAT WAS ADMITTED TO
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
REPUBLICANS CAN'T GET A FULL
ACCOUNT OF THE CONTACTS BECAUSE
DEMOCRATS BROKE THEIR PROMISE
AND MEMBERS HID THESE CONTACTS
FROM REPUBLICANS AND THEN LIED
ABOUT THEM TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE ON NATIONAL TELEVISION. I
HAVE NOTED BEFORE THAT DEMOCRATS
HAVE A LONG HABIT OF ACCUSING
REPUBLICANS OF OFFENSES THEY
THEMSELVES ARE COMMITTING. LET'S
RECALL
FOR YEARS, THEY ACCUSED THE
TRUMP CAMPAIGN OF COLLUDING WITH
RUSSIA WHEN THEY THEMSELVES WERE
COLLUDING WITH RUSSIA BY FUNDING
AND SPREADING THE DOSSIER THAT
RELIED ON RUSSIAN SOURCES AND
NOW THEY ACCUSED PRESIDENT TRUMP
OF MALFEASANCE IN UKRAINE WHEN
THEY THEMSELVES ARE CULPABLE.
THE DEMOCRATS COOPERATED IN THE
ELECTION MEDDLING AND DEFEND
HUNTER BIDEN SECURING OF A
LAVISHLY PAID POSITION WITH A
CORRUPT UKRAINIAN COMPANY. ALL
WHILE HIS FATHER SERVED AS VICE
PRESIDENT.
DESPITE THIS HYPOCRISY,
DEMOCRATS ARE ADVANCING THE
IMPEACHMENT SHAM BUT WE SHOULD
NOT HOLD ANY HEARINGS AT ALL
UNTIL WE GET ANSWERS TO THREE
CRUCIAL QUESTIONS
THAT DEMOCRATS HAVE AVOIDED
ASKING. FIRST, WHAT IS THE FULL
EXTENT OF THE PRIOR COORDINATION
OF THE DEMOCRATS WITH THE
WHISTLEBLOWER AND WHO ELSE DID
THE WHISTLEBLOWER CHORDATE THIS
EFFORT WITH? SECOND, WHAT IS THE
FULL EXTENT OF THE ELECTION
MEDDLING AGAINST THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN? THIRD, WHY DID THEY
HIRE HUNTER BIDEN AND WHAT DID
HE DO FOR THEM AND DID HIS
POSITION AFFECT ANY U. S.
GOVERNMENT ACTIONS UNDER THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
THESE QUESTIONS WILL REMAIN
OUTSTANDING BECAUSE ORGANS WERE
DENIED THE RIGHT TO CALL
WITNESSES THAT KNOW THESE
ANSWERS. WHAT WE WITNESS TODAY
IS A TELEVISED THEATRICAL
PERFORMANCE STAGED BY THE
DEMOCRATS. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR AND
MR. KENT, I WOULD LIKE TO
WELCOME YOU HERE AND
CONGRATULATE YOU
FOR HAVING THE STAR ADDITIONS
HELD IN THE BASEMENT OF THE
CAPITOL. IT SEEMS YOU AGREED
WHAT HE OR UNWITTINGLY TO
PARTICIPATE IN A DRAMA BUT THE
MAIN PERFORMANCE, THE RUSSIAN
HOAX HAS ENDED AND YOU HAVE BEEN
CAST IN THE UKRAINIAN SEQUEL. I
WILL CONCLUDE BY NOTING THE
IMMENSE DAMAGE THE BUREAUCRACY
HAS DONE TO AMERICAN SPACE AND
GOVERNMENT
THOUGH EXECUTIVE BRANCH
EMPLOYEES ARE CHARGED WITH
IMPLEMENTING THE POLICY SET BY
OUR PRESIDENT WHO WAS ELECTED
AND RESPONSIBLE TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE. ELEMENTS OF CIVIL
SERVICE HAVE DECIDED THAT THEY,
NOT THE PRESIDENT ARE REALLY IN
CHARGE. AS WE WILL LEARN IN
THESE HEARINGS
AFTER EXPRESSING SKEPTICISM OF
FOREIGN AID AND CONCERN ABOUT
FOREIGN CORRUPTION ON THE
CAMPAIGN TRAIL, PRESIDENT TRUMP
OUTRAGED THE BUREAUCRACY BY
ACTING SKEPTICALLY ABOUT FOREIGN
AID IN EXPRESSING CONCERNS ABOUT
FOREIGN CORRUPTION. OFFICIALS
ALARMED THAT IT IS THE
PRESIDENT'S ACTIONS BASED ON
SECONDHAND OR THIRDHAND OR EVEN
FOURTH HAND RUMORS AND
INNUENDOS. THEY BELIEVED IT WAS
AN OUTRAGE FOR THE PRESIDENT TO
FIRE AN AMBASSADOR EVEN THOUGH
THE PRESIDENT HAS FULL AUTHORITY
TO RETAIN OR REMOVE DIPLOMATS
FOR ANY REASON AT ANY TIME.
OFFICIALS SO THE SURPRISING LACK
OF INTEREST IN THE INDICATIONS
OF UKRAINIAN ELECTION MEDDLING
THAT DEEPLY CONCERN THE
PRESIDENT AT HIS PLEASURE THEY
SERVE. DESPITE ALL THEIR
DISHONEST SATISFACTION WITH THE
POLICIES, THEY APPROVED THE
WEAPONS TO UKRAINE UNLIKE THE
PREVIOUS ADMINISTRATOR WHICH
PROVIDED BLANKETS AS DEFENSE
AGAINST INVADING RUSSIA. BY
UNDERMINING THE PRESIDENT WHOM
THEY ARE SUPPOSED TO BE SERVING,
THE ELEMENTS OF THE FBI AND
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND NOW
THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAVE LOST
THE CONFIDENCE OF MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS WHO BELIEVE THAT THEIR
VOTE SHOULD COUNT FOR SOMETHING.
IT WILL TAKE YEARS IF NOT
DECADES TO RESTORE FAITH IN
THESE INSTITUTIONS. THIS
SPECTACLE IS DOING GREAT DAMAGE
TO OUR COUNTRY. NOTHING MORE
THAN AN IMPEACHMENT PROCESS AND
A SEARCH OF A CRIME. I YIELD
BACK.
>> TODAY WE ARE JOINED BY
WILLIAM TAYLOR AND GEORGE KENT
WHO ARE APPEARING UNDER
SUBPOENA.  MR. WILLIAM TAYLOR
HAS SERVED FOR OVER HALF A
CENTURY AND EXTENDED
MILITARY AT WEST POINT AND
GRADUATED AT THE TOP 1% OF HIS
CLASS BEFORE SERVING AS AN
INFANTRY OFFICER IN THE U.S.
ARMY FOR SIX YEARS INCLUDING
WITH 101st AIRBORNE DIVISION
DURING THE VIETNAM WAR. TAYLOR
LED A RIFLE PLATOON IN VIETNAM
AND WAS AWARDED THE BRONZE STAR
MEDAL
IN THE AIR MEDAL FOR VALOR.
FOLLOWING HIS MILITARY SERVICE,
HE WORKED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF
ENERGY IN THE U.S. SENATE AS AN
ADVISOR AS WELL AS THE U. S.
AMBASSADOR TO NATO. IN THE
1990S, TAYLOR COORDINATED U. S.
ASSISTANCE TO EASTERN EUROPE AND
LATER SERVED IN AFGHANISTAN AND
IRAQ AND WORKED ON THE MIDDLE
EAST PEACE PROCESS. PRESIDENT
BUSH NOMINATED HIM AS AN
INVESTOR TO UKRAINE WHERE HE
SERVED UNTIL 2009 AND THAT WAS
APPOINTED BY PRESIDENT BARACK
OBAMA TO BE SPECIAL COORDINATOR
FOR MIDDLE EAST TRANSITIONS. HE
WAS SERVING AS EXECUTIVE VICE
PRESIDENT OF THE NONPARTISAN
PIECE WHEN THE SECRETARY OF
STATE, MIKE POMPEO ASKED HIM TO
RETURN TO LEAD THE U. S. EMBASSY
. MR. GEORGE KENT SERVES AS A
SECRETARY IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
STATE  EURO OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
OVERSEEING POLICY TOWARDS
UKRAINE AND OTHER COUNTRIES. HE
HAS SERVED TWICE IN UKRAINE FROM
2004 TO 2007 AND WAS A DEPUTY
POLITICAL COUNSELOR INCLUDING
DURING THE REVOLUTION AND FOR
2015 TO 2018, HE SERVED AS
DEPUTY CHIEF
AND SINCE JOINING THE FOREIGN
SERVICE IN 1992, HE HAS SERVED
IN POLAND EAST PAKISTAN AND
THAILAND. HE ALSO SERVED AS A
SENIOR CORRUPTION COORDINATOR
AND LOOKED AT THE RULE OF LAW.
ALL WITNESS DEPOSITIONS AS PART
OF THIS INQUIRY WERE
UNCLASSIFIED IN NATURE AND ALL
OPEN HEARINGS WILL ALSO BE AT
THE UNCLASSIFIED LEVEL. ANY
INFORMATION THAT MAY TOUCH
UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION WILL BE
ADDRESSED SEPARATELY.
CONGRESS WILL NOT TOLERATE ANY
REPRISAL OR THREAT OF REPRISAL
OR ATTEMPT TO RETALIATE AGAINST
THE GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
ATTEMPTING TO TESTIFY BEFORE
CONGRESS AND IF YOU WOULD BOTH
ARISE AND RAISE YOUR RIGHT HAND,
I WILL BEGIN BY SWEARING YOU IN.
DO YOU SWEAR OR AFFIRM THAT THE
TESTIMONY YOU ARE ABOUT TO GIVE
IS THE TRUTH, THE WHOLE TRUTH
AND NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH, SO
HELP YOU GOD. LET THE RECORD
SHOW THAT THE WITNESSES ANSWERED
IN THE AFFIRMATIVE. THANK YOU
AND PLEASE BE SEATED.
>> BEFORE WE HEAR FROM THE
WITNESSES, I HAVE A
PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRY.  MR.
CHAIRMAN, WHEN CAN WE ANTICIPATE
A RESPONSE TO THE NOVEMBER 9
LETTER REQUESTING CERTAIN
INDIVIDUAL WITNESSES TO BE
CALLED?
>> THREE OF THE WITNESSES
THAT ARE REQUESTED ARE SCHEDULED
FOR NEXT WEEK.
>> THOSE ARE YOUR WITNESSES,
WHAT ABOUT THE ADDITIONAL SIX
WITNESSES?
>> YOU MAY INQUIRE ABOUT
ADDITIONAL WITNESSES OR MAKE A
REQUEST FOLLOWING WITNESS
TESTIMONY.
>> I HAVE A POINT OF ORDER.
>> YOU CAN STATE THE POINT OF
ORDER.
>> WILL YOU BE PROHIBITING
WITNESSES FROM ANSWERING
MEMBERS QUESTIONS AS YOU HAVE IN
THE CLOSED-DOOR DEPOSITION?
>>
YOU WERE PRESENT FOR SOME OF
THEM.
>> CORRECT.
>> THE ONLY TIME I PREVENTED
WITNESSES FROM ANSWERING
QUESTIONS ALONG WITH THE COUNCIL
WAS WHEN IT WAS APPARENT THAT
MEMBERS WERE SEEKING TO OUT THE
WHISTLEBLOWER. WE WILL DO
EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO PROTECT
THE WHISTLEBLOWERS IDENTITY AND
I AM DISTURBED TO HEAR MEMBERS
OF THE COMMITTEE WHO HAVE IN THE
PAST VOICED STRONG SUPPORT FOR
WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS TO
UNDERMINE THOSE PROTECTIONS BY
OUTING THE WHISTLEBLOWER.
>> ONLY ONE MEMBER AND THE
STAFF ON THIS COMMITTEE HAS
DIRECT KNOWLEDGE OF THE IDENTITY
OF THE WHISTLEBLOWER.
>> THERE IS A PARLIAMENTARY
INQUIRY AND I'M RESPONDING FOR
POINT OF ORDER. WE WILL NOT
PERMIT THE OUTING OF THE
WHISTLEBLOWER AND QUESTIONS
ALONG THOSE LINES
WILL INFORM CLIENTS NOT TO
RESPOND TO IT IF NECESSARY I
WILL INTERVENE. OTHERWISE, I
WANT MEMBERS TO FILL FREE TO ASK
ANY QUESTIONS THEY WOULD LIKE.
>> I WOULD LIKE A MOTION.
>> THE GENTLEMAN IS NOT
RECOGNIZED.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN?
>> I AM RESPONDING TO POINT OF
ORDER OTHERWISE THEY WILL BE
OPPORTUNITY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS. IS?
>> TO MAKE A MOTION THAT WE
SUBPOENA  THE WHISTLEBLOWER FOR
A CLOSED-DOOR SECRET DEPOSITION
SO THAT THE QUESTIONS THAT
SHOULD BE ASKED BY OUR SIGN IN
YOUR SIDE MAY BE ASKED AND I
WOULD PREFER THAT RATHER THAN
BE YOUR SINGLE DECISION THAT THE
COMMITTEE SPEAK TO THAT ISSUE
RATHER THAN JUST THE CHAIRMAN.
>> IT WON'T BE MY SINGLE
DECISION.  WE WILL ENTERTAIN A
MOTION TO SUBPOENA ANY WITNESS
BUT AFTER THE WITNESSES HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO TESTIFY.
>> THAT MOTION WILL BE IN ORDER.
>> IT WILL BE EXTENDED.
>> DO YOU ANTICIPATE WHEN WE
WOULD VOTE ON THAT ?
>> THERE IS A CLARIFYING
QUESTION.  DO YOU ANTICIPATE
WILL MIGHT VOTE ON THE ABILITY
TO HAVE THE WHISTLEBLOWER IN
FRONT OF US AND SOMETHING YOU,
THE 435 MEMBERS, YOU ARE THE
ONLY MEMBERS THAT KNOW WHO THAT
INDIVIDUAL IS AND YOUR STAFF IS
THE ONLY STAFF THAT HAS A CHANCE
TO TALK TO THE INDIVIDUAL. WE
WOULD LIKE THAT OPPORTUNITY.
WHEN MIGHT THAT HAPPENED?
>> THAT IS A FALSE STATEMENT AND
I DO NOT KNOW THE IDENTITY OF
THE WHISTLEBLOWER AND I'M
DETERMINED TO MAKE SURE THE
IDENTITY IS PROTECTED . AS I
SAID TO MR. CONAWAY, YOU WILL
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY AFTER THE
WITNESSES TESTIFY TO MAKE A
MOTION TO SUBPOENA ANY WITNESS
AND COMPEL A VOTE. WE NOW
RECOGNIZE THE WITNESSES AND
BEFORE I DO, I WANT TO JUST
EMPHASIZE THE MICROPHONES ARE
SENSITIVE SO PLEASE SPEAK
DIRECTLY INTO THEM. YOUR WIT
WRITTEN STATEMENTS WILL BE A
PART OF THE RECORD AND WITH IT,
SECRETARY KENT, YOU ARE
RECOGNIZED FOR YOUR OPENING
STATEMENT AND INVESTOR TAYLOR,
YOU ARE RECOGNIZED REALLY AFTER.
>> GOOD MORNING. MY NAME IS
GEORGE KENT AND I'M THE CENTURY
OF STATE FOR EASTERN  EUROPE IN
THE CAUCUSES. I HAVE SERVED
PROBABLY AS A NONPARTISAN
OFFICER FOR MORE THAN 27 YEARS.
THREE REPUBLICANS AND TWO
DEMOCRATS. AS I MENTIONED IN MY
OPENING COMMENTS LAST MONTH IN
THE CLOSED-DOOR DEPOSITION
, I WILL PRESENT THE THIRD
GENERATION OF MY FAMILY WHO HAVE
CHOSEN A CAREER IN PUBLIC
SERVICE AND SWORN THE OATH OF
OFFICE THAT ALL U. S. PUBLIC
SERVANTS DO IN DEFENSE OF OUR
CONSTITUTION. INDEED, THERE HAS
BEEN A GEORGE KENT  SWORN TO
DEFEND THE CONSTITUTION FOR
NEARLY 60 YEARS AND EVER SINCE
MY FATHER WARDED AND AFTER
GRADUATING FIRST IN HIS NAVAL
ACADEMY CLASS IN 1965, THE YEAR
BEST KNOWN FOR HIS-WEDDING, MY
FATHER SERVED A FULL HONORABLE
30 YEARS INCLUDING AS A CAPTAIN
OF A BALLISTIC SUBMARINE DURING
THE HEIGHT OF THE WAR. FIVE
GREAT UNCLE SERVED HONORABLY IN
THE NAVY AND ARMY IN WORLD WAR
II IN PARTICULAR, TAGGART WAS
STATIONED IN THE PHILIPPINES AT
THE TIME OF PEARL HARBOR. HE
SURVIVED THREE AND HALF YEARS OF
JAPANESE PRISONER OF WAR CAMP
UNBROKEN. HE RETURNED TO SERVICE
AS AND THEREFORE JUDGE ADVOCATE
UPHOLDING THE RULE OF LAW UNTIL
HIS DEATH IN 1965. TODAY, I
APPEAR BEFORE YOU ONCE AGAIN
UNDER SUBPOENA AS A FACT WITNESS
READY TO ANSWER ALL OF YOUR
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE EVENTS IN
DEVELOPMENT EXAMINED IN THIS
INQUIRY. TO THE BEST OF MY
ABILITY AND RECOLLECTION,
SUBJECT TO THE EVENTS PLACED ON
ME AND THE LAW. I WILL BEGIN
WITH OPENING COMMENTS ON THE KEY
PRINCIPLES AT THE HEART OF WHAT
BRINGS ME BEFORE YOU TODAY.
WITH THE PRINCIPAL PUBLIC
SERVICE IN PURSUIT OF OUR
NATIONAL INTEREST IN THE PLACE
OF UKRAINE AND THE NATIONAL
SECURITY INTEREST. THE PAST FIVE
YEARS WE HAVE FOCUSED OUR UNITED
EFFORTS ACROSS THE ATLANTIC TO
SUPPORT UKRAINE IN THE FIGHT AND
CAUSE OF FREEDOM IN THE REBIRTH
OF FREE OF RUSSIAN DOMINION IN
THE WORK LEGACY OF SOVIET
INSTITUTIONS AND POST-SOVIET
BEHAVIOR. AS I STATED IN MY
CLOSED-DOOR DEPOSITION, WE DON'T
STEP INTO THE PUBLIC ARENA OF
INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMACY AND
ACTIVE PURSUIT OF PRINCIPLE U.
S. INTEREST WITHOUT EXPECTING
VIGOROUS PUSHBACK INCLUDING
PERSONAL ATTACKS. SUCH ATTACKS
CAME FROM THE RUSSIANS AND THEIR
PROXIES AND CORRUPT UKRAINIANS.
THAT TELLS ME OUR EFFORTS WERE
HITTING THEIR MARK. IT WAS
UNEXPECTED AND MOST UNFORTUNATE
HOWEVER TO WHAT SOME AMERICANS
INCLUDING THOSE WHO ALIGN
THEMSELVES WITH CORRUPT
UKRAINIANS IN PURSUIT TO PRIVATE
AGENDAS AND LAUNCH ATTACKS ON
DEDICATED PUBLIC SERVANTS
ADVANCING U. S. SERVICE IN
UKRAINE. IN MY OPINION, THOSE
ATTACKS UNDERMINE U. S. AND
UKRAINIAN NATIONAL INTERESTS AND
DAMAGE THE CRITICAL BILATERAL
RELATIONSHIP. THE UNITED STATES
HAS A CLEAR NATIONAL INTEREST AT
STAKE IN UKRAINE SUCCESS IS VERY
MUCH IN OUR NATIONAL INTEREST IN
THE WAY WE HAVE DEFINED OUR
INTEREST PROBABLY IN EUROPE FOR
THE PAST 75 YEARS. AFTER WORLD
WAR II, U. S. LEADERSHIP
FURTHERED THE CITED POLICY LIKE
THE MARSHALL PLAN IN THE
CREATION OF A RULES-BASED
INTERNATIONAL ORDER. PROTECTED
BY THE COLLECTIVE SECURITY
PROVIDED BY NATO AND WESTERN
EUROPE RECOVERED AND THRIVED AND
NOTWITHSTANDING THE SHADOW OF
THE IRON CURTAIN. THE SECURITY
AND PROSPERITY CONTRIBUTED TO
OUR SECURITY AND PROSPERITY
IN THE SUPPORT OF SUCCESS ALSO
FIT SQUARELY INTO OUR STRATEGY
FOR CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE
SINCE THE FALL OF THE WALL 30
YEARS AGO THIS PAST WEEK. A
EUROPE TRULY AT PEACE. OUR
STRATEGIC AIM FOR THE ENTIRETY
OF MY CAREER IS NOT POSSIBLE
WITHOUT A UKRAINE FREE AND AT
PEACE INCLUDING TERRITORIES
CURRENTLY OCCUPIED BY RUSSIA
REPRESENTED BY THE RED IN THE
MAP. LOOKING FORWARD, THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION'S NATIONAL
SECURITY STRATEGY MAKES CLEAR
THAT GLOBAL STRATEGIC CHALLENGE
IS NOW BEFORE US. GREAT POWER
COMPETITION WITH RIVALS SUCH AS
RUSSIA AND CHINA AND THE NEED TO
COMPETE FOR POSITIVE INFLUENCE
WITHOUT TAKING COUNTRIES FOR
GRANTED.
IN THAT SENSE, UKRAINE HAS BEEN
ON THE FRONT LINES AND NOT JUST
OF RUSSIA'S CONVENTIONAL WAR IN
EASTERN EUROPE SINCE 2014 AND
THE BROADER CAMPAIGN OF
INFLUENCE BUT AS A GREATER
POLITICAL CHALLENGE NOW FACING
THE UNITED STATES. UKRAINE'S
POPULAR REVOLUTION OF DIGNITY IN
2014 FORCED A CORRUPT RUSSIAN
LEADERSHIP TO FULLY TO MOSCOW.
AFTER THAT, RUSSIAN INVADED
UKRAINE DOCUMENTING 7% OF THE
TERRITORY ROUGHLY EQUIVALENT TO
THE SIZE OF TEXAS IN THE UNITED
STATES. AT THAT TIME,
INSTITUTIONS WERE ON THE VERGE
OF COLLAPSE. UKRAINIAN CIVIL
SOCIETY ENTERED THE CHALLENGE
AND FORMED VOLUNTEER BATTALIONS
INCLUDING PROFESSIONALS AND
MEDICS WITH THE CROWD SOURCED
FUNDING OF THEIR OWN WEAPONS AND
BODY ARMOR AND SUPPLIES. THEY
WERE THE 21ST-CENTURY UKRAINIAN
EQUIVALENT OF HER OWN MINUTEMEN
OF 1776. BUYING TIME FOR A
REGULAR ARMY TO CONSTITUTE AND
SINCE THEN, MORE THAN 13,000
UKRAINIANS HAVE DIED ON
UKRAINIAN SOIL DEFENDING THEIR
INTEGRITY AND SOVEREIGNTY FROM
RUSSIAN AGGRESSION. AMERICA
SUPPORT IN UKRAINE'S WAR OF
INDEPENDENCE HAS BEEN CRITICAL
IN THIS REGARD. BY ANALOGY, THE
AMERICAN COLONIES MAY NOT HAVE
PREVAILED AGAINST THE BRITISH
WITHOUT THE HELP OF
TRANSATLANTIC FRIENDS AND AN
ECHO OF THE ORGANIZED ASSISTANCE
TO GEORGE WASHINGTON'S ARMY AND
OTHER RURAL
JOHN PAUL JONES IS NAVY, THEY
HAVE GENEROUSLY APPROPRIATED
OVER $1.5 MILLION OVER THE PAST
FIVE YEARS IN THIS REALLY NEEDED
TRAINED AND EQUIPPED ASSISTANCE
TO UKRAINE. THESE FUNDS INCREASE
THE STRENGTH AND ABILITY TO
FIGHT RUSSIAN AGGRESSION AND
ULTIMATELY, UKRAINE IS ON A PATH
TO BECOME A FULL SECURITY
PARTNER OF THE UNITED STATES
WITH THE NATO. SIMILAR AT VALLEY
FORGE, U. S. AND NATO ALLIED
TRAINERS DEVELOP SKILLS YEAR THE
POLISH BORDER AND ELSEWHERE.
THEY HELPED REWRITE MILITARY
EDUCATION FOR THE NEXT
GENERATION AS THEY DID FOR
AMERICA'S FIRST AND SUPPORTING
THE BRAVE RESISTANCE TO RUSSIAN
AGGRESSION, WE HAVE A FRONT ROW
C TO THE RUSSIAN WAY OF WAR IN
THE 21st CENTURY GIVING
PRICELESS INSIGHTS THAT
CONTRIBUTE TO OUR OWN
SECURITIES. THIS YEAR, UKRAINIAN
CITIZENS PASSED THE POLITICAL
TORCH TO A NEW GENERATION. ONE
THAT CAME OF AGE NOT IN THE
FINAL YEARS OF THE SOVIET UNION
BUT IN THE INDEPENDENT UKRAINE
AND PRESIDENTIAL AND
PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS SWEPT
OUT MUCH OF UKRAINE'S PREVIOUS
GOVERNING ELITE AND SEATED
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY, A CABINET
WITH AN AVERAGE AGE OF  39
INAPPROPRIATE
WITH THE AVERAGE AGE OF 41. AT
THE HEART OF THAT CHANGED
MANDATE, FIVE YEARS AFTER THE
REVOLUTION OF DIGNITY, THERE IS
A THIRST FOR JUSTICE BECAUSE
THERE CANNOT BE DIGNITY WITHOUT
JUSTICE. WITHOUT A REFORMED
JUDICIAL SECTOR THAT HAS JUSTICE
FOR ALL, UKRAINIAN SOCIETY WILL
REMAIN ON SEVERED. INVESTORS
WILL NOT BRING THE GREAT
INVESTMENT NEEDED TO ENSURE THAT
UKRAINE'S LONG-TERM PROSPERITY
IS SECURED.
THIS IS WHY THE PRINCIPAL
PROMOTION OF THE RULE OF LAW AND
INSTITUTIONAL INTEGRITY IS SO
NECESSARY TO OUR STRATEGY FOR A
SUCCESSFUL UKRAINIAN IT IS ALSO
TRUE FOR OTHER NATIONS STILL
RECOVERING. THIS IS WHY ACTING
INCONSISTENTLY WITH THE CORE
PRINCIPLE OF THE RULE OF LAW
COMES AT GREAT PERIL.
I AM GRATEFUL TO ALL THE MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS AND STAFF INCLUDING
MANY OF YOU SITTING HERE TODAY
WHO HAVE TRAVELED TO UKRAINE
OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS AND
APPROPRIATELY BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS OF ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT
OF THE PRIMARY POLICY GOALS.
THOSE FUNDS INCREASE THE ABILITY
TO FIGHT RUSSIAN AGGRESSION IN
THE DEFENSE ENERGY CYBER
AND ALSO EMPOWER STATE
INSTITUTIONS WITH THE CIVIL
SOCIETY TO UNDERTAKE SYSTEMIC
REFORMS AND TACKLE CORRUPTION. I
BELIEVE ALL OF US CAN BE PROUD
OF OUR EFFORTS OVER THE PAST
FIVE YEARS EVEN THOUGH MUCH
REMAINS TO BE DONE. BY ALL OF
US, I MEAN THOSE OF US IN THE
LEGISLATIVE AND EXECUTIVE
BRANCHES IN BOTH PARTIES AND THE
INTERAGENCY COMMUNITY WORKING
OUT OF THE EMBASSY WITH
UKRAINIANS IN GOVERNMENT AND
MILITARY AND CIVIL SOCIETY IN
THE TRANSATLANTIC ALLIES AND
PARTNERS. WE CANNOT ALLOW OUR
RESOLVE TO WAVER SINCE TOO MUCH
IS AT STAKE. NOT JUST FOR
UKRAINE BUT THE NATIONAL
INTERESTS OF THE UNITED STATES
BROADLY DEFINED. MY PRIOR
DEPOSITION COVERED A LOT OF
GROUND OVER 10 HOURS AND HERE
ARE THE MAIN 10 THINGS FROM MY
TESTIMONY. I ALLIED MIKE'S
PARENTS WITH ON SENDING U. S.
INTEREST IN SUPPORTING
ANTICORRUPTION IN UKRAINE. THIS
GAVE ME A FRONT ROW SEAT TO
PROBLEMATIC ACTIVITIES BY
SUCCESSORS IN UKRAINE. MY
KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING IS
SOMETIMES FIRST-HAND AND
SOMETIMES COMES FROM OTHERS
INVOLVED IN SPECIFIC
CONVERSATIONS AND MEETINGS. THIS
IS NO DIFFERENT THAN HOW ANYONE
LEARNS AND CARRIES OUT HIS OR
HER JOB RESPONSIBILITIES. I HAVE
BEEN AND REMAIN WILLING TO SHARE
MY FACTUAL OBSERVATIONS WITH THE
COMMITTEE AND WILL MAKE CLEAR
WHEN THOSE ARE BASED ON PERSONAL
KNOWLEDGE OR INFORMATION LEADING
FROM OTHERS.
U. S. EFFORTS TO COUNTER
CORRUPTION IN UKRAINE FOCUS ON
BUILDING INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
THAT AS THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT
HAS THE ABILITY TO AFTER
CORRUPTION AND INVESTIGATE AND
PROSECUTE AND JUDGE ALLEGED
CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES USING
APPROPRIATE INSTITUTIONAL
MECHANISMS. THAT IS TO CREATE
AND FOLLOW THE RULE OF LAW. THAT
MEANS IF THERE ARE
CRIMINAL ACTIVITY, U. S. LAW
ENFORCEMENT SHOULD PURSUE THE
CASE AND IF WE THINK THERE HAS
BEEN A CRIMINAL ACT OVERSEAS
THAT VIOLATES U. S. LAW, WE HAVE
THE MECHANISMS TO ADDRESS THAT.
IT COULD BE THROUGH THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT AND FBI AGENTS
OVERSEAS OR THROUGH TREATY
MECHANISMS SUCH AS THE NEUTRAL
LEGAL ASSISTANCE TREATY AND AS A
GENERAL PRINCIPLE, I DO NOT
BELIEVE THE UNITED STATES SHOULD
ASK OTHER COUNTRIES TO ENGAGE IN
SELECTIVE POLITICALLY ASSOCIATED
INVESTIGATIONS OR PROSECUTIONS
AGAINST OPPONENTS OF THOSE IN
POWER BECAUSE SUCH SELECTIVE
ACTIONS UNDERMINE THE RULE OF
LAW REGARDLESS OF THE COUNTRY.
LONG-STANDING PROBLEMS AND
CORRUPTION IN UKRAINE CREATED
EXPOSURE TO A SITUATION CAUSING
THE ENERGY COMPANY AND THE
PRIMARY CONCERN WAS THE OWNER
WHO HAS FROZEN ASSETS THAT WAS
ATTEMPTED TO RECOVER ON
UKRAINE'S HALF. I RAISE
QUESTIONS WITH THE DEBBIE
PROSECUTOR GENERAL ABOUT WHY THE
INVESTIGATION OF PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY HAVE BEEN TERMINATED
BASED ON OUR BELIEF THAT
PROSECUTORS ACCEPTED BRIBES ON
THE CASE. LATER, I BECAME AWARE
THAT HUNTER BIDEN WAS ON THE
BOARD AND SOON AFTER THAT IN A
BRIEFING CALL WITH THE NATIONAL
SECURITY STAFF IN THE OFFICE OF
THE VICE PRESIDENT INFANTRY
2015, I RAISE MY CONCERN TO
HUNTER BIDEN'S STATUS AS A BOARD
MEMBER
TO LOOK AT CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
LET ME BE CLEAR, I DID NOT
WITNESS ANY EFFORT TO SHIELD
PRISMA FROM SCRUTINY AND I AND
OTHER OFFICIALS CONSISTENTLY
ADVOCATED REINSTITUTING A SUBTLE
INVESTIGATION
OF THE FOUNDER AS WELL AS
HOLDING THE PROSECUTORS THAT
CLOSED THE CASE TO ACCOUNT. OVER
THE COURSE OF 2018 AND 2019, I
BECAME INCREASINGLY AWARE OF AN
EFFORT BY RUDY GIULIANI AND
OTHERS INCLUDING HIS ASSOCIATES
TO RUN A CAMPAIGN TO SMEAR THE
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH AND
OTHERS.  ON THE UKRAINIAN SIDE
OF THIS EFFORT, IT WAS SOME OF
THE SAME CORRUPT PROSECUTORS I
HAD ENCOUNTERED AND PARTICULARLY
VICTOR SHOOK IT AND BRING GO.
THEY HAVE FALSE INFORMATION IN
ORDER TO EXTRACT REVENGE AGAINST
THOSE THAT WOULD EXPOSE THEIR
MISCONDUCT INCLUDING U. S.
DIPLOMATS AND UKRAINIAN
ANTICORRUPTION OFFICIALS AND
CIVIL CITED GROUPS. DURING 2019,
I BECAME ALARMED. THIS LED TO
THE OUSTER OF AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH  AND EFFORTS TO
ESTABLISH RAPPORT WITH THE NEW
ADMINISTRATION IN UKRAINE. IN
MID AUGUST, IT BECAME CLEAR THAT
THE INVESTIGATIONS WERE NOW
INFECTING INVESTIGATIONS
LEVERAGING
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S DESIRE FOR
A WHITE HOUSE MEETING. THERE ARE
AND ALWAYS HAVE BEEN
CONDITIONALITY'S  PLACED ON
UKRAINE INCLUDING ANTICORRUPTION
REFORM AS WELL IS BEING LARGER
STABILITY GOALS AND SAFETY NETS.
THE MONETARY FUND DOES THE SAME
THING. CONGRESS IN THE EXECUTIVE
BRANCH WORK TOGETHER TO HAVE
SOME SECURITY ASSISTANCE IN THE
UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
INITIATIVE. REGARDING MY
TESTIMONY TODAY, I WILL DO MY
BEST TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTIONS
THAT WILL INVOLVE ISSUES AND
CONVERSATIONS AND DOCK MEANT IN
A NUMBER OF YEARS.
IT MAY BE LIMITED BY THREE
CONSIDERATIONS. FIRST, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT HAS COLLECTED ALL
MATERIALS IN RESPONSE TO THE
SUBPOENA THAT MAY CONTAIN FACTS
RELEVANT TO MY TESTIMONY. I HAVE
NO SUCH DOCUMENTS OR MATERIALS
WITH ME TODAY. I WILL THUS DO MY
BEST TO ANSWER AS ACCURATELY AND
COMPLETELY AND TRUTHFULLY AS I
CAN AT THE BEST OF MY
RECOLLECTION.
SECOND, AS HIS COMMITTEE KNOWS,
THROUGHOUT THE PROCESS, THERE
HAVE BEEN CONCERNS OR QUESTIONS
MAY BE ASKED ABOUT CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION THAT WE HAVE ASKED
THE STATE DEPARTMENT FOR
GUIDANCE ABOUT CLASSIFICATION
CONCERNS RELEASED TO MY
DEPOSITION AND THEY HAVE
DECLINED TO PROVIDE ANY. IF I AM
ASKED A QUESTION TODAY THAT I
BELIEVE MAY IMPLICATE CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION, I WILL RESPECTFULLY
DECLINE TO ANSWER.
THIRD, THERE MAY BE QUESTIONS
FOCUSING ON THE IDENTITY OF
PEOPLE IN THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY AND THESE QUESTIONS
WERE REDACTED FROM MY
TRANSCRIPT. SUCH A QUESTION IF
IT ARISES TODAY, I WILL FOLLOW
MY ADVICE AND DECLINED TO
ANSWER.
I WOULD LIKE TO CONCLUDE MY
OPENING REMARKS WITH AN
OBSERVATION ABOUT SOME OF MY
FELLOW PUBLIC SERVANTS THAT HAVE
COME UNDER PERSONAL ATTACKS.
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH,
LIEUTENANT COLONEL AND DR. HILL
AT LEAST ONE OF WHOM WILL APPEAR
BEFORE THE BODY IN THE COMING
DAYS.
MARCIA, ALEX IF UNIT WERE BORN
ABROAD WERE THEY THEMSELVES
PERSONALLY CHOSE TO IMMIGRATE TO
THE UNITED STATES. THEY ALL MADE
THE PROFESSIONAL CHOICE TO SERVE
THE UNITED STATES AS PUBLIC
OFFICIALS HELPING SHAPE OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY POLICY TOWARDS
RUSSIA IN PARTICULAR
AND WE ARE BETTER FOR IT. IN
THIS SENSE, THEY ARE THE 21st
CENTURY ERRORS OF THE NATIONAL
SECURITY POLICY WHO WERE ALSO
BORN ABROAD. MY FORMER PROFESSOR
AND HIS FELLOW IMMIGRANT, HENRY
KISSINGER.
THEY FLED AND COMMUNIST
OPPRESSION  AND CONTRIBUTE TO A
STRONGER AND MORE SECURE
AMERICA. THAT HONORABLE
TRADITION OF TRANSATLANTIC TIES
GOES BACK TO THE VERY FOUNDING
OF OUR REPUBLIC. OUR
18TH-CENTURY INDEPENDENCE WOULD
NOT HAVE BEEN SECURED WITHOUT
THE CHOICE OF EUROPEAN OFFICERS
IN THE FRENCH BORN LAFAYETTE AND
GERMAN BORN
IN PULASKI TO COME TO THE NEW
WORLD AND FIGHT FOR OUR CAUSE OF
FREEDOM IN THE BIRTH OF A NEW
COUNTRY FREE FROM DOMINION. IT
IS MY PRIVILEGE TO SIT NEXT TO
MY FORMER BOSS AMBASSADOR DATE
TAYLOR TODAY AND IT IS MY HONOR
TO SERVE WITH ALL THESE
PATRIOTIC AMERICANS. THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, INVESTOR TAYLOR.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, I AM APPEARING
TODAY AT THE COMMITTEE'S REQUEST
TO PROVIDE MY PERSPECTIVE ON THE
EVENTS THAT ARE THE SUBJECT OF
THE COMMITTEE'S INQUIRY. I WANT
TO EMPHASIZE AT THE OUTSET THAT
WHILE I AM AWARE THAT THE
COMMITTEE HAS REQUESTED MY
TESTIMONY AS PART OF THE
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS, I AM
NOT HERE TO TAKE ONE SIDE OR THE
OTHER OR TO ADVOCATE FOR ANY
PARTICULAR OUTCOME OF THESE
PROCEEDINGS. MY SOLE PURPOSE IS
TO PROVIDE FACTS AS I KNOW THEM
ABOUT THE INCIDENTS IN QUESTION
AS WELL IS MY VIEWS ABOUT THE
STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE OF UKRAINE
TO THE UNITED STATES. MY WAY OF
BACKGROUND, IT HAS BEEN A
PRIVILEGE FOR ME TO SERVE OUR
COUNTRY AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
FOR MORE THAN 50 YEARS AS A
CADET AT WEST POINT AS YOU
MENTIONED, MR. CHAIRMAN, AS IN A
FORGERY OFFICER INCLUDED WITH
THE 101st AIRBORNE DIVISION IN
VIETNAM AND THE DEPARTMENT OF
ENERGY AND THEN AS A MEMBER OF A
SENATE STAFF AND THEN AT NATO
AND THAT WITH THE STATE
DEPARTMENT HERE AND ABROAD IN
AFGHANISTAN AND IRAQ AND
UKRAINE. I RETIRED FROM THE
STATE DEPARTMENT IN 2009 TO JOIN
THE INSTITUTE AND I'M EITHER A
CAREER MEMBER OF THE FOREIGN
SERVICE NOR OF THE CIVIL SERVICE
. I AM NONPARTISAN AND HAVE BEEN
APPOINTED BY EVERY PRESIDENT
FROM PRESIDENT REAGAN TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP. LET ME
SUMMARIZE MY MAIN POINTS. FIRST,
UKRAINE IS A STRATEGIC PARTNER
OF THE UNITED STATES AND
IMPORTANT FOR THE SECURITY OF
OUR COUNTRY AS WELL AS EUROPE.
UKRAINE IS ON THE FRONT LINE IN
THE CONFLICT WITH THE NEWLY
AGGRESSIVE RUSSIA.
SECOND, EVEN AS WE SIT HERE
TODAY, THE RUSSIANS ARE
ATTACKING UKRAINIAN SOLDIERS IN
THEIR OWN COUNTRY AND HAVE BEEN
FOR THE LAST FOUR YEARS. I SAW
THIS ON THE FRONTLINE LAST WEEK
IN THE DAY I WAS THERE, A
UKRAINIAN SOLDIER WAS KILLED AND
HORRIBLY WOUNDED. THIRD, THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE WE PROVIDE
IS CRUCIAL TO THE DEFENSE AND
PROTECTION OF THE SOLDIERS I MET
ON THE FRONTLINE LAST WEEK. IT
DEMONSTRATES TO UKRAINIANS AND
RUSSIANS THAT WE ARE THE
RELIABLE STRATEGIC PARTNER AND
IT IS CLEARLY IN OUR NATURAL
INTEREST TO ENSURE AGGRESSION
AND FINALLY
, I WROTE THAT WITHHOLDING
SECURITY ASSISTANCE IN EXCHANGE
FOR HELP TO THE DOMESTIC
POLITICAL CAMPAIGN IN THE UNITED
STATES WOULD BE CRAZY. I BELIEVE
THAT THEN AND NOW. LET ME TELL
YOU WHY.
ON MAY 28 OF THIS YEAR, I MET
WITH MIKE POMPEO WHO ASKED ME TO
REJOIN THE STATE DEPARTMENT AND
RETURN TO LEAD OUR EMBASSY IN
UKRAINE. IT WAS AND IS A
CRITICAL TIME FOR U. S. TROOP
CARRYING RELATIONS. I HAVE
SERVED FROM 2006 TO 2009 AS AN
INVESTOR AND HAVING BEEN
NOMINATED BY GEORGE W. BUSH IN
THE INTERVENING 10 YEARS HAD
STAYED ENGAGED WITH UKRAINE.
ACROSS THE RESPONSIBILITIES I
HAVE HAD IN PUBLIC SERVICE,
UKRAINE IS A HIGHLIGHT AND SO
SECRETARY POMPEO'S OFFER TO
RETURN AS CHIEF WAS COMPELLING.
AS A LEFT UKRAINE IN 2009, THE
COUNTRY HAD CONTINUED TO TURN
TOWARDS THE WEST BUT IN 2013, M
PUTIN WAS SO OUTRAGED THAT HE
TRIED TO BRIBE THE UKRAINIAN
PRESIDENT WHICH TRIGGERED MASS
PROTEST IN THE WINTER 2013 THAT
DROVE THE PRESIDENT TO FLEE TO
RUSSIA IN FEBRUARY 2014 BUT NOT
BEFORE HIS FORCES KILLED 100
UKRAINIAN PROTESTERS.
DAYS LATER, MR. PUTIN INVADED
HOLDING A SHAMROCK RANDOM AT THE
POINT OF RUSSIAN ARMY RIFLES IN
THE OF SURLY CLAIM THAT 97%
VOTED TO JOIN RUSSIA AND IN
EARLY APRIL,
HE SENT HIS FORCES INTO EASTERN
UKRAINE TO GENERATE ILLEGAL
ARMED FORMATIONS AND GOVERNMENTS
AND WHAT WE KNOW AS NUMBERS. YOU
CAN SEE THIS ON THE MAP AT THE
RIGHT HAND PORTION IN THE
EASTERN PORTION OF THE COUNTRY.
14,000 UKRAINE TO HAVE DIED IN
THE WAR AND MORE DIE EACH WEEK.
IN JULY 2014, THESE RUSSIAN LED
FORCES SHUT DOWN A CIVILIAN AIR
LINGER IN ROUTE FROM AMSTERDAM
TO MALAYSIA KILLING ALL 298
PEOPLE ON BOARD.
WE, THE EUROPEANS AND MOST OF
THE WEST IMPOSED ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS AND KICK THE RUSSIANS
OUT OF THE G-8 BEGINNING IN 2014
, WE AND NATO BEGAN TO PROVIDE
MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE'S
ARMED FORCES IN THE FORM OF
TRAINING ADVICE AND MILITARY
EQUIPMENT AND WEAPONS. IT IS THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE THAT IS AT
THE HEART OF THE CONTROVERSY
THAT WE ARE DISCUSSING TODAY.
THE PRO-RUSSIAN PRESIDENT THAT
WAS RUN OUT OF KEYS IN 2014 LEFT
THE RUSSIAN ARMED FORCES TO
DETERIORATE TO THE POINT OF RUIN
AND THE RESPONSE OF THE RUSSIAN
INVASION, THE NEW UKRAINIAN
AUTHORITIES WITH AN AMAZING
OUTPOURING OF SUPPORT FOR
REGULAR UKRAINIAN PEOPLE REBUILT
THE ARMY NEARLY FROM SCRATCH
WITH MORE THAN 5% OF THE GDP ON
DEFENSE SINCE THE WAR STARTED.
THE WHOLE UKRAINIAN NATION
FIERCELY RESPONDED TO THE
RUSSIAN ATTACK IN THE NATION
UNITED LIKE NEVER BEFORE. THE
ARMY DEVELOPED INTO A STRONG
FIGHTING FORCE IN THE UNITED
STATES PLAYED A VITAL ROLE. IN
2014, CONGRESS PROVIDED OVER 1.6
DOLLARS IN MILITARY ASSISTANCE
TO UKRAINE IN THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE DIVIDED SMALL UNIT
TRAINING AT AN ARMY BASE IN THE
WESTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY AND
PROVIDED ENTRANCES AND
MEDICATIONS EQUIPMENT AND
COUNTER BATTERY RADAR AND NAVY
SHIPS AND FINALLY A WEAPON. THEY
DEMONSTRATE OUR COMMITMENT TO
RESISTED AGGRESSION. DURING THE
2014 TO 2016 PERIOD, I WAS
SERVING OUTSIDE OF GOVERNMENT
AND JOINT TWO OTHER FORMER
INVESTORS AND URGED THE OBAMA
OFFICIALS AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT AND OTHER AGENCIES TO
PROVIDE LETHAL OFFENSE IN ORDER
TO DETER FURTHER RUSSIAN
AGGRESSION. I ALSO SUPPORTED
MUCH STRONGER SANCTIONS ON
RUSSIA. I WAS PLEASED WITH THE
TRUMPET MENSTRUATION PROVIDED AN
ATTACK MISSILES AND AN ACTION
STRONGER SANCTIONS. ALL TO SAY I
CARED ABOUT UKRAINE'S FUTURE AND
THE IMPORTANT INTEREST THERE.
WHEN SECRETARY POMPEO ASKED ME
TO GO BACK, I WANTED TO SAY YES
BUT IT WAS NOT AN EASY DECISION.
THE FORMER AMBASSADOR HAD BEEN
TREATED POORLY AND IN A WEB AND
I FEARED THAT THOSE PROBLEMS
WERE STILL PRESENT
IN AN INSULT TO BOTH MY WIFE AND
THE SENIOR PUBLIC AND OFFICIAL
WHO HAS BEEN A MENTOR. I WILL
TELL YOU THAT MY WIFE ON NO
UNCERTAIN TERMS STRONGLY AGREE
WITH THE IDEA AND IF YOUR
COUNTRY ASKED YOU TO DO
SOMETHING, YOU DO IT IF YOU CAN
BE EFFECTIVE. I CAN BE EFFECTIVE
ONLY IF THE U. S. POLICY WITH
STRONG SUPPORT AND STRONG
DIPLOMATIC SUPPORT ALONG WITH
ROBUST SECURITY AND ECONOMIC AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE WERE TO
CONTINUE AND IF I HAVE THE
BACKING OF THE SECRETARY OF
STATE TO IMPLEMENT THAT POLICY,
AS I WORRIED ABOUT WHAT I HAD
HEARD CONCERNING THE ROLE OF
RUDY GIULIANI THAT MADE SEVERAL
CONTROVERSIAL STATEMENTS ABOUT
UKRAINE AND U. S. POLICY FOR THE
COUNTRY.
DURING MY MEETING WITH SECRETARY
POMPEO, I MADE CLEAR TO HIM AND
THE OTHERS PRESENT THAT IF U. S.
POLICY TOWARDS UKRAINE CHANGED,
THEY WOULD NOT WANT ME POSTED
THERE AND I COULD NOT STAY. HE
ASSURED ME THAT THE POLICY HAD
STROKES OF COURT AND IT WOULD
CONTINUE AND THAT HE WOULD
SUPPORT ME IN DEFENDING THAT
POLICY. WITHOUT UNDERSTANDING, I
AGREED TO GO BACK BECAUSE I WAS
APPOINTED BY THE SECRETARY BUT
NOT RECONFIRMED BY THE SENATE.
MY OFFICIAL POSITION WAS THE
ACTING AMBASSADOR. I RETURNED ON
JUNE 17 DURING THE ORIGINAL COPY
OF A LETTER THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
SIGNED AND IN THAT LETTER,
PRESIDENT TRUMP CONGRATULATED
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY ON HIS
ELECTION VICTORY AND INVITED HIM
TO A MEETING IN THE OVAL OFFICE.
ONCE I ARRIVED, I DISCOVERED A
WEIRD COMBINATION OF ENCOURAGING
, CONFUSING AND ULTIMATELY
ALARMING CIRCUMSTANCES. FIRST,
ENCOURAGING, PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
IS REFORMING UKRAINE IN A HURRY
.
HE SUPPORTED LONG STALLED
ANTICORRUPTION LEGISLATION AND
TOOK QUICK EXECUTIVE ACTION
INCLUDING OPENING UKRAINE'S HIGH
ANTICORRUPTION COURT WITH A NEW
PARLIAMENTARY MAJORITY STEMMING
FROM SNAP ELECTIONS, PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY CHANGE  THE
CONSTITUTION TO REMOVE ABSOLUTE
IMMUNITY
FROM THE SOURCE OF ALL
CORRUPTION FOR TWO DECADES.
EXCITEMENT WAS PALPABLE AND THIS
TIME IT COULD BE DIFFERENT. AND
YOU KNEW UKRAINE FINALLY
BREAKING FROM ITS CORRUPT PAST.
YET, I FOUND IT CONFUSING AND
UNUSUAL FOR MAKING U. S. POLICY
. THERE APPEAR TO BE TWO
CHANNELS OF U. S. POLICYMAKING
AND IMPLEMENTATION. ONE REGULAR
AND ONE HIGHLY IRREGULAR. AS THE
ACTING AMBASSADOR, I HAD
AUTHORITY OVER THE REGULAR
INCLUDING THE BULK OF THE U. S.
EFFORTS TO SUPPORT UKRAINE
AGAINST RUSSIAN INVASION TO HELP
DEFEAT CORRUPTION. MY COLLEAGUE,
GEORGE KENT AND OUR COLLEAGUES
AT THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
WERE MY MAIN POINTS OF CONTACT
IN WASHINGTON IN THE REGULAR
CHANNEL. THIS CHANNEL IS
FORMALLY RESPONSIBLE TO
FORMULATE AND OVERSEE
DEPORTATION OF U. S. POLICY IN
THE POLICY THAT IS CONSISTENTLY
ENJOYED WITH STRONG BIPARTISAN
SUPPORT
SINCE UKRAINE'S INDEPENDENCE
FROM RUSSIA IN 1991. AT THE SAME
TIME, I ENCOUNTERED AN IRREGULAR
INFORMAL CHANNEL OF POLICYMAKING
UNACCOUNTABLE TO CONGRESS IN A
CHANNEL THAT INCLUDED SPECIAL
ENVOY AND U. S. AMBASSADOR TO
THE UNION AND RICK PERRY AND
WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF AND
AS I SUBSEQUENTLY LEARNED, MR.
GIULIANI. I WAS CLEARLY IN THE
REGULAR CHANNEL BUT I WAS ALSO
IN THE IRREGULAR ONE TO THE
EXTENT THAT INVESTORS
INCLUDED ME IN CERTAIN
CONVERSATIONS. THIS HEARING WILL
CHANNEL WAS WELL CONNECTED IN
WASHINGTON BUT OPERATED MOSTLY
OUTSIDE OF OFFICIAL STATE
DEPARTMENT. IT REALLY CHANNEL
BEGAN WHEN THE AMBASSADOR IN
SECTOR PERRY AND SENATOR RON
JOHNSON BREACHED PRESIDENT TRUMP
ON MAY 23 UPON THEIR RETURN FROM
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S
INAUGURATION.  THE DELEGATION
WAS AS ENTHUSIASTIC AS I WOULD
SOON BECOME ABOUT THE NEW
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT AND URGE
PRESIDENT TRUMP TO MEET WITH HIM
EARLY ON. TO CEMENT THE U. S.
UKRAINE RELATIONSHIP. FROM WHAT
I UNDERSTOOD FROM THE
PARTICIPANTS, PRESIDENT TRUMP
DID NOT SHARE THEIR ENTHUSIASM
FOR MEETING WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY. WHEN I ARRIVED , THE
ACTIONS OF BOTH THE REGULAR AND
IRREGULAR CHANNELS OF
FOREIGN-POLICY APPEARED TO SERVE
THE SAME GOAL. A STRONG U. S.
UKRAINE PARTNERSHIP THAT BECAME
CLEAR TO ME BY AUGUST THAT THE
CHANNELS HAD DIVERGED IN THEIR
OBJECTIVES AND I BECAME
INCREASINGLY CONCERNED. IN LATE
JUNE, BOTH CHANNELS WERE TRYING
TO FACILITATE A VISIT BY
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO THE WHITE
HOUSE  FOR MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP WHICH PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAD PROMISED IN HIS
CONGRATULATORY LETTER AND THE
UKRAINIANS WERE CLEARLY EAGER
FOR THE MEETING TO HAPPEN.
DURING MY SUBSEQUENT
COMMUNICATIONS WITH AMBASSADORS,
THEY RELAYED TO ME THAT THE
PRESIDENT WANTED TO HEAR FROM
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY BEFORE
SCHEDULING THE MEETING  IN THE
OVAL OFFICE. IT WAS NOT CLEAR TO
ME WHAT THIS MEANT. IN JUNE 27,
THE INVESTOR TOLD ME THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY NEEDED TO
MAKE CLEAR  TO PRESIDENT TRUMP
THAT HE,  PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WAS
NOT STANDING IN THE WAY OF
INVESTIGATIONS . I SENSED
SOMETHING ODD
THAT HE DID NOT WISH TO INCLUDE
MOST OF THE REGULAR INNER AGENT
PARTICIPANTS LATER THAT DAY.
WE WERE ON THIS CALL DIALING IN
FROM DIFFERENT LOCATIONS.
HOWEVER, THE AMBASSADOR SAID HE
WANTED TO MAKE SURE NO ONE WAS
TRANSCRIBING OR MONITORING AS
THEY ADDED PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO
THE CALL. ALSO,  BEFORE HE
JOINED THE CALL, THE INVESTOR
SITE REALLY TOLD THE U. S.
PARTICIPANTS THAT HE PLANNED TO
BE EXPLICIT WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY IN A ONE-ON-ONE MEETING
IN TORONTO  ON JULY 2 AND THAT
MEETING, THEY PLANNED TO TELL
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WHAT HE
NEEDED TO DO TO GET THE
MEETING.
AMBASSADOR VOLKER SAID HE WANTED
TO SEE RULE OF LAW AND
TRANSPARENCY BUT SPECIFICALLY
COOPERATION ON INVESTIGATIONS
TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THINGS.
ONCE PRESIDENT ZELENSKY JOINED
THE CALL, THE CONVERSATION WAS
FOCUS ON ENERGY POLICY  IN THE
WAR. PRESIDENT ZELENSKY SAID HE
LOOKED FORWARD TO THE WHITE
HOUSE VISIT  THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAS OFFERED IN HIS LETTER.
BY MID JULY, IT WAS BECOMING
CLEAR TO ME THAT THE MEETING
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WANTED WAS
CONDITIONED  ON THE
INVESTIGATIONS ON INTERFERENCE
IN THE 2016 ELECTIONS. IT WAS
ALSO CLEAR THAT THIS CONDITION
WAS DRIVEN BY THE LEGACY POLICY
CHANNEL I HAD UNDERSTOOD THAT
WAS GUIDED BY MR. GIULIANI.
THE SECURE VIDEO CONFERENCE CALL
ON JULY 18, I HEARD A STAFF
PERSON FROM THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET SAY THERE
IS A HOLD ON SECURITY ASSISTANCE
TO UKRAINE BUT COULD NOT SAY
WHY.
THE END OF AN OTHERWISE NORMAL
MEETING, A VOICE ON A CALL, THE
PERSON WAS OFFSCREEN SAID THAT
SHE WAS FROM OMB AND HER BOSS
INSTRUCTED HER NOT TO APPROVE
ANY ADDITIONAL PENDING ON
SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR UKRAINE
UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE. I AND
OTHERS SAT IN ASTONISHMENT.
UKRAINIANS WERE FIGHTING
RUSSIANS AND COUNTED ON NOT ONLY
THE TRAINING AND WEAPONS BUT
ASSURANCE OF U. S. SUPPORT. ALL
THE STAFF PERSON SAID WAS THAT
THE DIRECTIVE HAD COME FROM THE
PRESIDENT AND THE CHIEF OF STAFF
AND OMB. IN AN INSTANCE, I
REALIZE THAT ONE OF THE KEY
BUILDERS OF OUR STRONG SUPPORT
FOR UKRAINE WAS THREATENED IN
THE REGULAR SEA POLICY JENNA WAS
RUNNING CONTRARY TO THE GOALS OF
LONG-STANDING U. S. POLICY. IT
FOLLOWED A SERIES OF MEETINGS
STARTING AT THE STAFF LEVEL AND
QUICKLY REACHING THE LEVEL OF
CABINET SECRETARIES. AT EVERY
MEETING, THE UNANIMOUS
CONCLUSION WAS THAT THEY SHOULD
BE RESUMED
IN THE HOLE LIFTED. AT ONE
POINT, THEY WERE ASKED TO
PERFORM AN ANALYSIS OF THE
EFFECTIVENESS AND WITHIN A DAY,
THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT CAME BACK
WITH A DETERMINATION THAT IT WAS
EFFECTIVE AND SHOULD BE RESUMED.
MY UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT THE
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AND STATE
AND THE CIA DIRECTOR AND
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISORS
SOUGHT A JOINT MEETING TO
CONVINCE THE PRESIDENT TO
RELEASE THE HOLD BUT SUCH A
MEETING WAS HARD TO SCHEDULE IN
THE HOLD LASTED WELL INTO
SEPTEMBER. ON JULY 9 AND A PHONE
CALL WITHIN SENIOR DIRECTOR FOR
EUROPEAN AND RUSSIAN AFFAIRS,
FIONA HILL AND DIRECTOR OF
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS AT THE NFC
TRYING TO ASSURE ME THAT THEY
WERE NOT AWARE OF ANY OFFICIAL
CHANGE IN U. S. POLICY TOWARDS
UKRAINE AND ON THESE
ANNOUNCEMENT NOTWITHSTANDING.
THEY DID CONFIRM THAT THE HOLD
ON SECURITY SYSTEMS FOR UKRAINE
CAME FROM CHIEF OF STAFF WHO
MAINTAIN A SKEPTICAL VIEW OF
UKRAINE. ON THE SAME JULY 19
PHONE CALL, THEY GAVE ME AN
ACCOUNT OF A JULY 10 MEETING
WITH UKRAINIAN AND AMERICAN
OFFICIALS AT THE WHITE HOUSE AND
TOLD ME THAT PART WITHIN THE
MEANING, THE AMBASSADOR HAD
INVESTIGATIONS WITH AN OVAL
OFFICE MEETING AND THEN JOHN
BOLTON ABRUPTLY ENDED THE
MEETING SAYING THAT THEY SHOULD
HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH DOMESTIC
POLITICS. HE ALSO DIRECTED DR.
HILL TO BRACE THE LAWYERS. DR.
HILL SAID THAT AMBASSADOR VOLKER
REFERRED TO THE DEAL AS A DRUG
DEAL AFTER THE MEETING. INVESTOR
BOLTON OPPOSED THE CALL BETWEEN
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AND PRESIDENT
TRUMP OUT OF CONCERN THAT IT
WOULD BE A DISASTER . NEEDLESS
TO SAY, THE UKRAINE'S IN THE
MEETING WERE CONFUSED.
THE DECISION-MAKING CHANNEL
WANTED TO TALK ABOUT SECURITY
AND ENERGY AND REFORM.
TO PARTICIPATE IN THE ORIGINAL,
THEY WANTED TO TALK ABOUT THE
CONNECTION BETWEEN A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING AND UKRAINIAN
INVESTIGATIONS. DURING THE JULY
19 CALL, DR. HILL INFORMED ME
THAT AMBASSADOR VOLKER HAD MET
WITH  MR. GIULIANI TO DISCUSS
UKRAINE WHICH CAUGHT ME BY
SURPRISE AND NEXT I ASKED ABOUT
THAT MEETING BUT RECEIVED NO
RESPONSE. I BEGAN TO SENSE THAT
THESE TWO SEPARATE
DECISION-MAKING CHANNELS, THE
REGULAR AND IRREGULAR WERE
SEPARATE. LATER THAT DAY, I
RECEIVED TEXT MESSAGES ON A
THREE-WAY CONVERSATION WITH
AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND SOLOMON .
INVESTOR SOLOMON SAID THAT A
CALL BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WOULD TAKE
PLACE SOON  AND AMBASSADOR
VOLKER SAID THAT WHAT WAS MOST
IMPORTANT WAS FOR
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO SAY THAT
HE WOULD HELP INVESTIGATION AND
ADDRESS ANY PERSONAL ISSUES IF
THERE ARE ANY.  ON THE NEXT DAY,
I HAD A PHONE CONVERSATION WITH
INVESTOR SOLOMON WHILE HE WAS ON
A TRAIN FROM PARIS TO LONDON.
AMBASSADOR SOLOMON TOLD ME HE
HAD RECOMMENDED PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY THAT HE USE THE PHRASE
I WILL LEAVE NO STONE UNTURNED
WITH REGARD TO INVESTIGATIONS
WHEN PRESIDENT ZELENSKY SPOKE
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP.
ALSO, ON JULY 20, I HAD A PHONE
CONVERSATION WITH THE NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISOR WHO EMPHASIZED
THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  DID NOT
WANT TO BE USED AS AN INSTRUMENT
IN A U. S. REELECTION CAMPAIGN.
THE NEXT DAY, I TALKED ABOUT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S CONCERN
AND ON JULY 25, PRESIDENT TRUMP
AND PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  HAD THE
LONG-AWAITED PHONE CONVERSATION
EVEN THOUGH I WAS ACTING
INVESTOR AND WAS SCHEDULED TO
MEET WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AND
AMBASSADOR VOLKER, I RECEIVED NO
PHONE CALL FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
AND THEY ISSUED A SHORT  CRYPTIC
SUMMARY. DURING A PREVIOUSLY
PLANNED JULY 26 MEETING,
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TOLD
AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND ME THAT HE
WAS HAPPY WITH THE CALL  BUT DID
NOT ELABORATE. PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY THEN ASKED ABOUT THE
FACE-TO-FACE MEETING IN THE OVAL
OFFICE  AS PROMISED IN THE MAY
29 LETTER FROM PRESIDENT TRUMP.
WE COULD GIVE HIM NO FIRM
ANSWER. AFTER OUR MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY, AMBASSADOR
VOLKER AND I TRAVELED TO THE
FRONT LINE TO RECEIVE A BRIEFING
FROM THE FORCES OF THE LINE OF
CONTACT. ARRIVING FOR THE
BRIEFING IN THE MILITARY
HEADQUARTERS, THE COMMANDER
THANKED US BUT I WAS AWARE THAT
THIS ASSISTANCE WAS ON HOLD
WHICH MADE ME UNCOMFORTABLE.
AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND I COULD
SEE  THE RUSSIAN LED FORCES ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE DAMAGED
BRIDGE ACROSS THE LINE OF
CONTACT AND RUSSIAN LED FORCES
CONTINUED TO UKRAINIANS IN THE
WAR ONE OR TWO A WEEK.
UKRAINIANS WOULD UNDOUBTEDLY DIE
WITHOUT U. S. ASSISTANCE.
ALTHOUGH I SPENT THE MORNING OF
JULY 26 WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
AND OTHER OFFICIALS, THE FIRST
SUMMARY  OF THE CALL THAT I
HEARD FROM ANYBODY INSIDE THE U.
S. GOVERNMENT WAS DURING A PHONE
CALL I HAD WITH TIM MORRISON IN
THE RECENT REPLACEMENT OF THE
NFC ON JULY 28. MR. MORRISON
TOLD ME THAT THE CALL COULD'VE
BEEN BETTER AND THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAD SUGGESTED THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  OR STAFF
MEET WITH MR. GIULIANI AND THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL, WILLIAM BARR.
I DID NOT SEE ANY OFFICIAL
READOUT OF THE CALL UNTIL IT WAS
PUBLICLY RELEASED ON THE TIMBER
25th AND BY AUGUST I WAS
BECOMING MORE CONCERNED AND BY
AUGUST 15, I EXCHANGED TEXT
MESSAGES IN WHICH I LEARNED THAT
ANDRE, A SENIOR ADVISOR TO THE
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY HAD ASKED
THAT THE UNITED STATES SUBMIT
AN OFFICIAL REQUEST OR
INVESTIGATION INTO THE ALLEGED
VIOLATIONS OF UKRAINIAN LAW.
THAT IS WHAT THE UNITED STATES
DESIRED IN THE FORMAL U. S.
REQUEST TO UKRAINIANS CONDUCTED
AN INVESTIGATION BASED ON
VIOLATIONS OF THEIR OWN LAW AND
IT STRUCK ME AS IMPROPER AND I
RECOMMENDED THAT THEY CLEAR TO
FIND OUT THE LEGAL ASPECTS OF
THE QUESTION I GAVE HIM THE NAME
OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL WHOM I
THOUGHT WOULD BE THE PROPER
POINT OF CONTACT FOR SEEKING THE
U. S. REQUEST FOR A FOREIGN
INVESTIGATION AND BY MID AUGUST
BECAUSE THIS HAD BEEN HELD FOR
OVER A MONTH
FOR NO REASON THAT I COULD
DISCERN, I WAS BEGINNING TO FEAR
THAT THE LONG-STANDING U. S.
POLICY OF SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE
WAS SHIFTING. I CALLED THE STATE
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL TO DISCUSS
THIS ON AUGUST 21 AND HE SAID HE
WAS NOT AWARE OF THE CHANGING
POLICY BUT WOULD CHECK ON THE
ASSISTANCE.
MY CONCERN DEEP IN THE NEXT DAY
ON AUGUST 22 DURING A PHONE
CONVERSATION WITH MR. MORRISON.
I ASKED HIM IF THERE HAD BEEN A
CHANGE IN POLICY OF STRONG
SUPPORT UKRAINE FOR WHICH HE
RESPONDED, "IT REMAINS TO BE
SEEN." HE ALSO TOLD ME DURING
THE CALL THAT THE PRESIDENT
DOESN'T WANT TO PROVIDE ANY
ASSISTANCE AT ALL. THAT WAS
EXTREMELY TROUBLING TO ME AS I
HAD TOLD SECRETARY POMPEO IN MAY
THAT IF IT WERE TO CHANGE, I
WOULD HAVE TO RESIGN AND BASED
ON MY CALL, I WAS PREPARING TO
DO SO. JUST DAYS LATER ON AUGUST
27, INVESTOR BOLTON ARRIVED IN
DURING THE MEETING, SECURITY
ASSISTANCE WAS NOT DISCUSSED AND
AS FAR AS I KNEW, THE UKRAINIANS
WERE NOT AWARE UNTIL AUGUST 29
OF THE HOLD AND I ON THE OTHER
HAND WAS ALL TOO AWARE OF AND
TROUBLED BY IT. NEAR THE END OF
THE VISIT, I ASKED TO MEET HIM
PRIVATELY WHICH I EXPRESSED TO
HIM MY SERIOUS CONCERN ABOUT THE
WITHHOLDING OF MILITARY
ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE WHILE THE
UKRAINIANS WERE DEFENDING THEIR
COUNTRY FROM RUSSIAN AGGRESSION.
BOLTON RECOMMENDED THAT I TALKED
TO SECRETARY POMPEO RELAYING MY
CONCERNS. I WROTE AND
TRANSMITTED SUCH A CABLE ON
AUGUST 29 DESCRIBING THE FOLLY I
SAW HIM WITHHOLDING MILITARY AID
TO UKRAINE WHEN
THINGS WERE STILL ACTIVE IN THE
EAST AND RUSSIA WAS WATCHING
CLOSELY TO GAUGE THE LEVEL OF
AMERICAN SUPPORT WITH THE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT. THE
RUSSIANS AS I SAID IN MY
DEPOSITION WOULD LOVE TO SEE THE
HUMILIATION OF PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AT THE HANDS OF THE
AMERICANS.  I TOLD THE SECRETARY
THAT I COULD NOT AND WOULD NOT
DEFEND SUCH A POLICY ALTHOUGH I
RECEIVED NO SPECIFIC RESPONSE, I
HEARD THAT SOON THEREAFTER, THE
SECRETARY CARRIED THE CABLE WITH
HIM TO A MEETING AT THE WHITE
HOUSE FOCUSED ON SECURITY
ASSISTANCE FOR UKRAINE IN THE
SAME DAY THAT I SENT MY CABLE TO
THE SECRETARY, MR. MARK
CONTACTED ME VERY CONCERN ASKING
ME ABOUT THE WITHHELD SECURITY
ASSISTANCE IN THE HOLD THAT THE
WHITE HOUSE HAD PLACED HAD JUST
BEEN MADE PUBLIC THAT DAY IN A
POLITICAL STORY AND AT THAT
POINT I WAS EMBARRASSED THAT I
COULD GIVE HIM NO EXPLANATION
FOR WHY. IT HAD STILL NOT
OCCURRED TO ME THAT THE HOLD ON
SECURITY ASSISTANCE COULD BE
RELATED TO THE INVESTIGATIONS.
THAT HOWEVER WOULD CHANGE. ON
SEPTEMBER 1, JUST THREE DAYS
AFTER MY CABLE TO SECRETARY
POMPEO, PRESIDENT ZELENSKY MET
VICE PRESIDENT PENTZ AT A
MEETING IN WARSAW AND PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAD PLANNED TO TRAVEL TO
WARSAW BUT AT THE LAST MINUTE
CANCELED BECAUSE OF HURRICANE
DORIAN. HOURS BEFORE THE PENTZ
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY MEETING, I
CONTACTED TO LET THEM KNOW THAT
THE DELAY OF U. S. ASSISTANCE
WAS ALL OR NOTHING PROPOSITION
IN THE SENSE THAT IF THE WHITE
HOUSE DID NOT LIST THE HOLD
PRIOR TO THE END OF THE FISCAL
YEAR, THE FUNDS WOULD EXPIRE IN
UKRAINE WOULD RECEIVE NOTHING. I
WAS HOPEFUL THAT THE BILATERAL
MEETING OR SHORTLY THEREAFTER,
THE WHITE HOUSE WOULD LIFT THE
HOLD BUT THIS WAS NOT TO BE. ON
THE EVENING OF SEPTEMBER 1, I
RECEIVED A READOUT OF THE
MEETING OVER THE PHONE WITH MR.
MORRISON DURING WHICH HE TOLD ME
THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY HAD
OPENED THE MEETING BY MERELY
ASKING  THE VICE PRESIDENT ABOUT
THE SECURITY AND VICE PRESIDENT
DID NOT RESPOND BUT SAID HE
WOULD TALK TO PRESIDENT TRUMP
THAT NIGHT.
THE VICE PRESIDENT DID SAY THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP ONE OF THE
EUROPEANS TO DO MORE TO SUPPORT
UKRAINE AND THAT HE WANTED
UKRAINE TO DO MORE TO FIGHT
CORRUPTION. DURING THE SAME
PHONE CALL, HE DESCRIBED A PHONE
CALL THAT WAS HAD IN WARSAW AND
INVESTOR SOLOMON SAID THAT THE
MONEY WOULD NOT COME UNTIL
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  COMMITTED TO
PURSUE THE INVESTIGATION. I WAS
ALARMED BY WHAT MR. MORRISON
TOLD ME ABOUT THE CONVERSATION
AND I UNDERSTAND THAT MR.
MORRISON TESTIFIED IN HIS
DEPOSITION THAT INVESTOR SO MY
PROPOSAL MIGHT BE SUFFICIENT FOR
THE GENERAL TO PURSUE THE
INVESTIGATIONS AS OPPOSED TO
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY BUT THIS WAS
THE FIRST TIME  THAT I HAD HEARD
THAT THE SECURITY ASSISTANCE AND
NOT JUST THE WHITE HOUSE MEETING
WAS CONDITIONED ON THE
INVESTIGATIONS.
VERY CONCERNED ON THAT SAME DAY,
SEPTEMBER 1, I SENT INVESTOR
SOLOMON A TEXT MESSAGE ASKING IF
NOW WE ARE SAYING THAT THE
SECURITY IN THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING ON CONDITIONED ON THE
INVESTIGATION AND INVESTOR
SOLOMON RESPONDED ASKING ME TO
CALL HIM WHICH I DID AND DURING
THAT PHONE CALL, INVESTOR
SOLOMON TOLD ME THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAD TOLD HIM THAT HE WANTS
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  TO STATE
PUBLICLY THAT UKRAINE WILL
INVESTIGATE CHARISMA AND
INTERFERENCE IN THE 2016
ELECTION. INVESTOR SOLOMON ALSO
TOLD ME THAT HE NOW RECOGNIZED
THAT HE HAD MADE A MISTAKE BY
EARLY TELLER UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS
THAT ONLY A WHITE HOUSE MEETING
WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WAS
DEPENDENT ON A PUBLIC
ANNOUNCEMENT ON THE
INVESTIGATION  AND IN FACT,
INVESTOR SOLOMON SAID EVERYTHING
WAS DEPENDENT ON SUCH AN
ANNOUNCEMENT INCLUDING SECURITY
ASSISTANCE. HE SAID PRESIDENT
TRUMP WANTED PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
IN A PUBLIC BOX BY MAKING A
PUBLIC STATEMENT ABOUT ORDERING
SUCH INVESTIGATIONS
AND I TOLD INVESTOR SOLOMON THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP SHOULD HAVE MORE
RESPECT FOR ANOTHER HEAD OF
STATE AND THAT WHAT HE DESCRIBED
WAS NOT IN THE INTEREST OF
EITHER PRESIDENT TRUMP OR
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY.  AT THAT
POINT I ASKED TO PUSH BACK ON
THE DEMAND AND INVESTOR SOLOMON
PLEDGED TO TRY. I ADJUSTED THE
POSSIBILITY THAT UKRAINIAN
PROSECUTOR GENERAL WOULD MAKE A
STATEMENT ABOUT THE
INVESTIGATIONS POTENTIALLY IN
COORDINATION WITH ATTORNEY
GENERAL BARS PROBE INTO THE
ELECTIONS. THE NEXT DAY
, MR. MORRISON CALLED TO INFORM
ME THAT HE WAS ASKED TO COME TO
HIS HOTEL AND HE EXPRESSED
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S CONCERN
ABOUT THE POSSIBLE LOSS OF U. S.
SUPPORT  FOR UKRAINE. IN
PARTICULAR, MR. MORRISON RELAYED
TO ME THAT THE INABILITY OF ANY
U. S. OFFICIALS TO RESPOND TO
UKRAINE'S EXPLICIT QUESTIONS
ABOUT SECURITY ASSISTANCE WAS
TROUBLING THEM AND I WAS
EXPECTING THE SAME TENSION IN MY
DEALINGS INCLUDING A MEETING I
HAD WITH THE DEFENSE MINISTER
THAT DAY. ON SEPTEMBER 5, I
ACCOMPANIED SATURDAY JOHNSON AND
MURPHY DURING THEIR VISIT AND
WHEN WE MET, IT WAS ABOUT THE
WITHHELD SECURITY ASSISTANCE IN
MY RECOLLECTION OF THE MEETING
IS THAT BOTH SENATORS STRESSED
THAT BIPARTISAN SUPPORT FOR
UKRAINE IN WASHINGTON WAS
UKRAINE'S MOST IMPORTANT
STRATEGIC ASSET AND THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY SHOULD NOT
JEOPARDIZE  THAT SUPPORT BY
GETTING DRAWN IN TO U. S.
DOMESTIC POLICY.
I HAVE BEEN MAKING AND CONTINUED
TO MAKE THIS POINT TO ALL OF MY
OFFICIAL CONTACTS BUT THE ODD
PUSH TO MAKE PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
PUBLICLY SUBMIT TO
INVESTIGATIONS OF CHARISMA AND
ALLEGED INTERFERENCE IN THE 2016
ELECTION SHOWED HOW THE OFFICIAL
FOREIGN POLICY OF THE UNITED
STATES WAS UNDERCUT BY THE
REGULAR EFFORTS LED BY MR.
GIULIANI. A FEW DAYS LATER,
SEPTEMBER 7, I HAD A
CONVERSATION WITH MR. MORRISON
IN WHICH HE DESCRIBED A PHONE
CALL BETWEEN INVESTOR SOLOMON
AND PRESIDENT TRUMP. HE SAID HE
HAD A SINKING HEALING AFTER
LEARNING ABOUT THE CONVERSATION
FROM INVESTOR SOLOMON AND
ACCORDING TO MR. MORRISON,
PRESIDENT TRUMP TOLD INVESTOR
SOLOMON HE WAS NOT ASKING FOR A
QUID PRO QUO. PRESIDENT TRUMP
DID INSIST THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY GO TO A MICROPHONE  AND
SAY HE IS OPENING INVESTIGATIONS
OF BIDEN IN 2016 ELECTION
INTERFERENCE. THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY SHOULD WANT TO DO THIS
HIMSELF.  MR. MORRISON SAID HE
TOLD
AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND THE
LAWYERS OF THIS PHONE CALL
BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  AND THE
FOLLOWING DAY ON SEPTEMBER 8,
INVESTOR SOLOMON AND I SPOKE ON
THE PHONE AND HE CONFIRMED HE
TALKED TO PRESIDENT TRUMP AS I
SUGGESTED THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
WAS ADAMANT THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY HIMSELF  HAD TO CLEAR
THINGS UP AND DO IT IN PUBLIC.
PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID IT WAS NOT
A QUID PRO QUO. I BELIEVE THIS
WAS THE SAME CONVERSATION
BETWEEN INVESTOR SOLOMON AND
PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT MR.
MORRISON HAD DESCRIBED TO ME.
INVESTOR SOLOMON ALSO SAID HE
TALKED TO PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AND
MR. YOUR MARK AND HAD TOLD THEM
THAT ALTHOUGH THIS WAS NOT A
QUID PRO QUO THAT IF PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY DID NOT  CLEAR THINGS
UP, WE WOULD BE AT A STALEMATE.
I UNDERSTOOD ESTIMATE TO ME THAT
IT WOULD NOT MEAN MUCH NEEDED
MILITARY ASSISTANCE IN THIS
CONCLUDED WITH THE GREEN TO MAKE
A PUBLIC STATEMENT IN AN
INTERVIEW ON CNN. SHORTLY AFTER
THAT CALL, I EXPRESSED MY STRONG
RESERVATIONS TO INVESTOR SOLOMON
STATING THAT MY NIGHTMARE
IS THE DAY THE UKRAINIANS GIVE
THE INTERVIEW AND DON'T GET THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE. RUSSIANS
LOVE IT AND I QUIT AND I WAS
SERIOUS. THE NEXT DAY I SAID TO
INVESTOR SOLOMON THAT THE
MESSAGE TO THE UKRAINIANS AND
THE RUSSIANS THAT WE SEND WITH
SECURITY ASSISTANCE IS KEY. WITH
THE HOLD WE HAVE ALREADY SHAKEN
THEIR FAITH IN US AND ALSO SAID
I THINK IT IS CRAZY TO WITHHOLD
SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR HELP
WITH THE POLITICAL CAMPAIGN.
INVESTOR SOLOMON RESPONDED ABOUT
FIVE HOURS LATER THAT I WAS
INCORRECT ABOUT THE INTENTIONS
AND THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
CRYSTAL CLEAR THAT NO
QUID PRO QUOS OF ANY TIME.
DURING THE MEETING ON THE CALL
ON SEPTEMBER 8, INVESTOR SOLOMON
TRIED TO EXPLAIN TO ME THAT THE
BUSINESSMAN WAS ABOUT TO SIGN A
CHECK TO SOMEONE WHO OWES THEM
SOMETHING AND HE ASKED THAT
PERSON TO PAY UP BEFORE SIGNING
THE CHECK. HE USES SAME LANGUAGE
SEVERAL DAYS LATER WHILE WE WERE
TOGETHER AT THE STRATEGY
CONFERENCE AND I ARGUED THAT THE
EXPLANATION MAY NO SENSE.
UKRAINIANS DO NOT OWE PRESIDENT
TRUMP ANYTHING IN HOLDING
SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR
POLITICAL GAIN WAS CRAZY AS I
HAD SAID IN MY TEXT MESSAGE ON
SEPTEMBER 9. FINALLY, ON
SEPTEMBER 11, I LEARNED THAT THE
HOLD HAD BEEN LIFTED AND
ASSISTANCE WOULD BE PROVIDED. I
WAS NOT TOLD THE RECENT WHY THE
HOLD HAD BEEN LIFTED AND THE
NEXT DAY I PERSONALLY CONVEYED
THE NEWS TO PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
IN THE  UKRAINIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER AND I REMINDED OF THE
HIGH STRATEGIC VALUE OF
BIPARTISAN SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE
AND THE IMPORTANCE OF NOT
GETTING INVOLVED IN OTHER
COUNTRIES ELECTIONS AND I FEARED
THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY HAD
ALREADY AGREED  TO AN INTERVIEW
AND PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WOULD
MAKE A STATEMENT REGARDING
INVESTIGATIONS THAT WOULD PLAY
INTO POLITICS. THIS WAS
CONFIRMED THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY WAS NOT PLANNING TO
GIVE SUCH AN INTERVIEW
WHILE THEY CONFIRMED ON
SEPTEMBER 12, I NOTICED DURING A
MEETING ON THE MORNING OF
SEPTEMBER 13 AT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY'S OFFICE THAT  THERE IS
AN CONVERTIBILITY TO THE
QUESTION AND THEN I ASKED TO
CONFIRM THAT THERE WOULD BE NO
CNN INTERVIEW WHICH HE DID. ON
THE 25th AT THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
SESSION IN YORK CITY, PRESIDENT
TRUMP MET PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
FACE TO FACE AND ALSO RELEASED
THE TRANSCRIPT  OF THE JULY 25
CALL IN THE 19th GAVE UKRAINIANS
VIRTUALLY NO NOTICE. THIS WAS
THE FIRST TIME I HAD SEEN THE
DETAILS OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
JULY 25 CALL WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY  IN WHICH HE MENTIONED
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN, I HAVE
COME TO UNDERSTAND WELL BEFORE
THEN THAT INVESTIGATIONS WITH
THE TERM AMBASSADOR VOLKER  USED
WITH THE 2016 ELECTIONS AND TO
THE INVESTIGATIONS OF THE
BIDENS.
LAST FRIDAY, A MEMBER OF MY
STAFF TOLD ME OF EVENTS OF THE
CARD ON JULY 26 AND WELL
AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND I VISITED
THE FRONT, A MEMBER OF MY STAFF
ACCOMPANIED INVESTOR SOLOMON.
FOLLOWING THAT MEETING IN THE
PRESENCE OF MY STAFF AT A
RESTAURANT, INVESTOR, SOLOMON
CALLED PRESIDENT TRUMP AND TOLD
HIM OF HIS MEETINGS.
A MEMBER OF MY STAFF COULD HEAR
PRESIDENT TRUMP ON THE PHONE
ASKING INVESTOR SOLOMON ABOUT
THE INVESTIGATIONS AND INVESTOR
SOLOMON SAID THAT THE UKRAINIANS
WERE READY TO MOVE FORWARD.
FOLLOWING THE CALL WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP, A MEMBER OF MY
STAFF ASKED INVESTOR SOLOMON
WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP THOUGHT
ABOUT UKRAINE AND HE RESPONDED
THAT HE CARES MORE ABOUT THE
INVESTIGATIONS OF BIDEN WHICH
GIULIANI WAS PRESSING FOR AND AT
THE TIME I GET MY DEPOSITION ON
OCTOBER 22
, I WAS NOT AWARE OF THIS
INFORMATION. I AM INCLUDING IT
HERE AS THE COMMITTEE KNOWS, I
REPORTED THIS INFORMATION
THROUGH COUNSEL WITH THE STATE
DEPARTMENT LEGAL ADVISOR AS WELL
AS TO COUNSEL FOR BOTH MAJORITY
AND MINORITY OF THIS COMMITTEE.
IT IS MY UNDERSTANDING THAT THE
COMMITTEE IS FOLLOWING UP ON
THIS MATTER. MR. CHAIRMAN, I
RECOGNIZE THAT THIS IS A RATHER
LENGTHY RECITATION OF THE EVENTS
OF THE PAST FEW MONTHS FROM MY
VANTAGE POINT AND MR. KENT'S BUT
I ALSO LOOK AT THE MATTERS YOUR
COMMITTEE IS INVEST GETTING AND
I HOPE THIS WILL PROVIDE SOME
FRAMEWORK FOR YOUR QUESTIONS. AS
I MENTIONED IN MY OCTOBER 22
DEPOSITION, INFORMATION" IN MY
TESTIMONY ARE BASED ON MY BEST
RECOLLECTION AS WELL AS A REVIEW
OF MY PERSONAL NOTE. LET ME
RETURN TO THE POINTS THAT I MADE
ON THE OFFSET. UKRAINE IS
IMPORTANT TO THE SECURITY OF THE
UNITED STATES AND THE LARGEST
COUNTRY IN EUROPE BY LANDMASS,
UKRAINE IS A YOUNG DEMOCRACY
STRUGGLING TO JOIN EUROPE AND
ALIGN ITSELF WITH UNITED STATES.
IT HAS BEEN WIDELY ATTACKED BY
RUSSIA WHICH INCLUDES TO THIS
DAY AND WE BELIEVE IN THE
PRINCIPLE OF THE SOVEREIGNTY OF
NATIONS ON WHICH OUR SECURITY
AND THE SECURITY OF OUR FRIENDS
AND ALLIES IF WE BELIEVE NATIONS
GET TO DECIDE ON THEIR OWN
ECONOMIC POLITICAL AND SECURITY
ALLIANCES, WE MUST SUPPORT
UKRAINE IN THE FIGHT AGAINST
THIS BULLYING NEIGHBOR. RUSSIAN
AGGRESSION NOT STANDING.
DEMOCRATIC DEMONSTRATIONS OVER
THREE DECADES HAVE BEEN GENEROUS
WITH ASSISTANCE FUNDING BOTH
CIVILIAN AND MILITARY AND
POLITICAL SUPPORT WITH
OVERWHELMING BIPARTISAN
MAJORITIES, CONGRESS HAS IMPOSED
HARSH SANCTIONS ON RUSSIA FOR
INVADING AND OCCUPYING
UKRAINE. THERE ARE TWO UKRAINE
STORIES TODAY AND THE FIRST IS
THE ONE WE ARE DISCUSSING THIS
MORNING THAT YOU HAVE BEEN
HEARING ABOUT FOR THE PAST TWO
WEEKS. IT IS A STORY ABOUT
WHISTLEBLOWERS AND MR. JULIANO
AND SIDE CHANNELS IN CORRUPTION
AND INTERFERENCE IN ELECTION. IN
THIS STORY, UKRAINE IS MERELY AN
OBJECT. BUT, THERE IS ANOTHER
STORY. A POSITIVE BY PERSON
WANTED TO THE SECOND STORY,
UKRAINE IS THE SUBJECT. THIS ONE
IS ABOUT YOUNG PEOPLE IN A YOUNG
NATION STRUGGLING TO BREAK FREE
OF ITS PAST AND HOPEFUL THAT THE
NEW GOVERNMENT WILL FINALLY
USHER IN A NEW UKRAINE PROUD OF
ITS INDEPENDENCE FROM RUSSIA
EAGER TO JOIN WESTERN
INSTITUTIONS AND ENJOY A MORE
SECURE AND PROSPEROUS LIFE. THIS
STORY DESCRIBES A NATION
DEVELOPING AN INCLUSIVE
DEMOCRATIC NATIONALISM NOT
UNLIKE WHAT WE IN AMERICA IN OUR
BEST MOMENTS FEEL ABOUT OUR
DIVERSE COUNTRY WITH LESS
CONCERN ABOUT WHAT LANGUAGE WE
SPEAK AND WHAT RELIGION IF ANY
WE PRACTICE AND WHERE OUR
PARENTS AND GRAND PARENTS CAME
FROM AND MORE CONCERNED ABOUT
BUILDING A NEW COUNTRY.
I AM NOW LOOKING FORWARD TO YOUR
QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU BOTH FOR YOUR
TESTIMONY AND I NOW RECOGNIZE
MYSELF IN MAJORITY COUNSEL FOR
45 MINUTES OF QUESTIONS.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO BEGIN BY
FOLLOWING UP WITH SOMETHING YOU
HAVE DISCLOSED TODAY AND
DISCLOSED EARLIER TO BOTH
MAJORITY AND MINORITY BUT IT IS
NEW INFORMATION FOR THE
COMMITTEE. YOU SAID IN YOUR
TESTIMONY THAT ONE OF YOUR STAFF
WAS PRESENT WITH INVESTOR
SOLOMON AFTER THE JULY 25
PHONE CALL. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> AS YOUR STAFF RELAYED THE
EVENT TO YOU, YOUR STAFF MEMBER
WOULD OVERHEAR MR. SOLOMON ON
THE PHONE
AND OVERHEAR THE PRESENT ON THE
PHONE WITH MR. SOLOMON. IS THAT
RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THE PRESENT MUST'VE BEEN
SPEAKING LOUD ENOUGH ON THE
PHONE AND THIS WAS A CELL PHONE
I TAKE IT?
>> IT WAS A CELL PHONE.
>> THEY MUST BE SPEAKING LOUD
ENOUGH TO OVERHEAR THIS?
>> IT WAS.
>> WHAT YOUR STAFF MEMBER COULD
OVERHEAR  WAS PRESIDENT TRUMP
ASKING
ABOUT THE INVESTIGATIONS. IS
THAT RIGHT?
>> IS CORRECT.
>> I THINK YOU TESTIFIED ALSO
THAT YOU HAD COME TO UNDERSTAND
THAT THE TERM INVESTIGATIONS WAS
A TERM THAT INVESTOR SOLOMON AS
WELL AS AMBASSADOR VOLKER USED
TO MEAN  WITH THE ELECTIONS IN
THE INVESTIGATIONS OF CHARISMA
AND BIDEN. IS THAT CORRECT?
>> IS CORRECT .
>> YOU HEAR THE PRESIDENT ASKING
ABOUT THE INVESTIGATIONS
MEANING CHARISMA AND THAT BIDENS
AND INVESTOR SOLOMON TOLD
PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT THE
UKRAINIANS WERE READY TO MOVE
FORWARD?
>> HE DID.
>> I THINK YOU SAID THAT AFTER
THE CALL  WHEN YOUR STAFF ASKED
INVESTOR SOLOMON WHAT HE THOUGHT
OF UKRAINE, HIS RESPONSE WAS
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP CARES MORE
ABOUT BIDEN, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> AND BARIZMA, YES SIR.
>> I TAKE IT THAT HE CARES MORE
ABOUT THAT THAN HE DOES ABOUT
UKRAINE.
>> YES, SIR.
>> DURING YOUR TESTIMONY
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, YOU ALSO SAID
THAT MORE UKRAINIANS WOULD
UNDOUBTEDLY DIE WITHOUT U. S.
ASSISTANCE. WHY IS THAT?
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE THAT WE PROVIDE TAKES
MANY FORMS. ONE OF THE
COMPONENTS OF THAT ASSISTANCE IS
COUNTER BATTERY RADAR. ANOTHER
COMPONENT IS STIPEND WEAPONS.
THESE WEAPONS IN THIS ASSISTANCE
ALLOWS THE UKRAINIAN MILITARY TO
DETER FURTHER INCURSIONS BY THE
RUSSIANS AGAINST UKRAINIAN
TERRITORY. IF THAT FURTHER
ENCOURAGES AGGRESSION AND THAT
WERE TO TAKE LACE, MORE
UKRAINIANS WOULD DIE. IT IS A
DETERRENT EFFECT THAT THESE
WEAPONS PROVIDE AND ALSO GIVES
THE UKRAINIANS THE ABILITY TO
NEGOTIATE FROM A POSITION OF A
LITTLE MORE STRENGTH WHEN THEY
NEGOTIATE AN END TO THE WAR
NEGOTIATING WITH THE RUSSIANS
AND THIS ALSO IS A WAY THAT
WOULD REDUCE THE NUMBER OF
UKRAINIANS THAT WOULD DIE.
>> THIS WOULD SAVE UKRAINIAN
LIVES AND IT MAY COST LIVES.
>> IT IS HARD TO DRAW ANY
DIRECT LINES WITH ANY PARTICULAR
DEATH ON THE BATTLEFIELD BUT IT
IS CERTAINLY TRUE THAT THE
ASSISTANCE HAD ENABLED FORCES TO
BE EFFECTIVE AND TO BE ABLE TO
TAKE COUNTERMEASURES THROUGH THE
ATTACKS.
>> I THINK YOU SAID THAT THE
SOLDIERS LOST THEIR LIFE WHILE
YOU ARE VISITING.
>> WE KEEP TRACK OF THE
CASUALTIES I NOTICED ON THE NEXT
DAY THAT THE INFORMATION THAT WE
GOT THAT FOR NUMBER KILLED.
>> INDEED, UKRAINIANS LOSE
THEIR LIVES EVERY WEEK.
>> EVERY WEEK.
>> I THINK YOU ALSO TESTIFIED
THAT RUSSIA WAS WATCHING CLOSELY
TO GET  THE LEVEL OF AMERICAN
SUPPORT FOR THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT. WHY IS THAT
SIGNIFICANT?
>> THIS IS SIGNIFICANT , MR.
CHAIRMAN, BECAUSE UKRAINIANS IN
PARTICULAR UNDER THIS NEW
ADMINISTRATION ARE EAGER TO END
THE WAR AND EAGER TO END IT IN A
WAY THAT THE RUSSIANS LEAVE
THEIR TERRITORY. THESE
NEGOTIATIONS LIKE ALL
NEGOTIATIONS ARE DIFFICULT.
UKRAINIANS WOULD LIKE TO BE ABLE
TO NEGOTIATE FROM
A POSITION OF STRENGTH OR AT
LEAST MORE STRENGTH THAN THEY
NOW HAVE. PART OF THAT STRENGTH
AND ABILITY OF UKRAINIANS TO
NEGOTIATE AGAINST THE RUSSIANS
WITH THE RUSSIANS FOR AN END TO
THE WAR ON
TRAVERTINE DEPENDS ON THE UNITED
STATES AND OTHER INTERNATIONAL
SUPPORT. IF WE WITHDRAW OR
SUSPEND OR THREATEN TO WITHDRAW
OUR SECURITY ASSISTANCE, THAT IS
A MESSAGE TO THE UKRAINIANS BUT
AS YOUR QUESTION INDICATES, IT
IS ALSO IMPORTANT TO THE
RUSSIANS THAT ARE LOOKING FOR
ANY SIGN OF WEAKNESS OR ANY SIGN
THAT WE ARE WITHDRAWING OUR
SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE.
>> WHEN UKRAINIANS LEARNED OF
THE SUSPENSION OF THE MILITARY
AID OTHER PRIVATELY OR WHEN
OTHERS LEARN PUBLICLY, THE
RUSSIANS WOULD BE LEARNING ALSO
AND THEY WOULD TAKE THAT AS A
LACK OF ROBUST U. S. SUPPORT FOR
UKRAINE? IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THAT WOULD WEAKEN UKRAINE IN
NEGOTIATING AN END TO THE WAR IN
DOMBAS.
>> IT WOULD.
>> PEOPLE WATCHING I'M SURE ARE
INTERESTED IN HOW MILITARY
ASSISTANCE AND A BLACK SUPPORT
FOR UKRAINE AFFECTS UKRAINE BUT
EVEN MORE SO INTERESTED IN HOW
DOES THIS AFFECT OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY? I THINK YOU SAID THAT
IF WE BELIEVE IN A PRINCIPAL
SOVEREIGNTY OF NATIONS WHERE
COUNTRIES GET TO DETERMINE THEIR
OWN ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL
SECURITY ALLIANCES, WE HAVE TO
SUPPORT UKRAINE IN ITS FIGHT
THAT THAT KIND OF AGGRESSION WE
SEE CAN'T STAND. HOW IS IT
IMPORTANT TO AMERICAN NATIONAL
SECURITY THAT WE PROVIDE FOR A
ROBUST DEFENSE OF UKRAINE
SOVEREIGNTY?
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, AS MIKE
COLLEAGUES,  GEORGE KENT
DESCRIBED, WE HAVE A NATIONAL
SECURITY POLICY AND DEFENSE
POLICY THAT IDENTIFIES RUSSIA
AND CHINA AS ADVERSARIES. THE
RUSSIANS ARE VIOLATING ALL OF
THE RULES AND TREATIES AND
UNDERSTANDINGS THAT THEY
COMMITTED TO THAT ACTUALLY KEPT
THE PEACE IN EUROPE FOR NEARLY
70 YEARS. UNTIL THEY INVADED
UKRAINE, THEY HAD ABIDED BY
SOVEREIGNTY
OF NATIONS AND IN VIABILITY OF
BORDERS. THAT RULE OF LAW OR
ORDER THAT KEPT THE PEACE IN
EUROPE AND ALLOWED FOR
PROSPERITY AS WELL AS PEACE IN
EUROPE WAS VIOLATED AND IF WE
DON'T PUSH BACK ON THAT AND ON
THOSE VIOLATIONS, THAT WILL
CONTINUE. THAT, MR. CHAIRMAN
, AFFECTS US AND THE WORLD THAT
WE LIVE IN THAT OUR CHILDREN
WILL GROW UP IN AND OUR
GRANDCHILDREN. THIS AFFECTS THE
KIND OF WORLD THAT WE WANT AND
AFFECTS OUR NATIONAL INTEREST
DIRECTLY. UKRAINE IS ON THE
FRONT LINE OF THAT CONFLICT.
>> THANK YOU BOTH FOR YOUR
DECADES OF SERVICE TO THE
COUNTRY AND I KNOW RECOGNIZE MR.
GOLDMAN FOR QUESTIONING.
>> THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN.
INVESTOR TAYLOR, ON THE HEELS OF
DISCUSSING THE IMPORTANCE OF
SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE,
I WANT TO GO TO THE END OF THAT
TIMELINE WHERE YOU LEARNED THAT
THE SECURITY ASSISTANCE WAS
CONDITIONED
ON UKRAINE ANNOUNCING THE
INVESTIGATION THAT THE PRESIDENT
WANTED. IN PARTICULAR ON
SEPTEMBER 9 OF THIS YEAR, YOU
TEXTED
INVESTOR SOLOMON AND AMBASSADOR
VOLKER.
THEY SHOULD BE ON THE SCREEN IN
FRONT OF YOU. IF YOU COULD READ
WHAT YOU WROTE.
>> AS I SAT ON THE PHONE, I
THINK IT IS CRAZY  TO WITHHOLD
SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR HELP
WITH THE POLITICAL CAMPAIGN.
>> WHAT DID YOU MEAN THAT YOU
THOUGHT IT WAS CRAZY ?
>> I MEANT THAT BECAUSE OF THE
IMPORTANCE OF SECURITY
ASSISTANCE THAT WE HAD JUST
DESCRIBED AND HAD A CONVERSATION
WITH THE CHAIRMAN, BECAUSE THAT
WAS SO IMPORTANT AND IT WAS SO
IMPORTANT FOR UKRAINE AS WELL IS
OUR OWN NATIONAL INTEREST, TO
WITHHOLD THAT ASSISTANCE FOR NO
GOOD REASON OTHER THAN HELP WITH
A POLITICAL CAMPAIGN MADE NO
SENSE. IT WAS COUNTERPRODUCTIVE
TO ALL OF WHAT WE HAVE BEEN
TRYING TO DO. IT WAS ILLOGICAL
AND COULD NOT BE EXPLAINED. IT
WAS CRAZY.
>> WHEN YOU SAY OF ALL OF WHAT
WHAT WE WERE TRYING TO DO, WHAT
DO YOU MEAN BY "WE?" I WAS
TRYING TO SUPPORT  UKRAINE
AGAINST RUSSIAN ATTACK AND AGAIN
, THE WHOLE NOTION OF THE RULE
WAS BEEN THREATENED SO OUR
ASSISTANCE WAS DESIGNED TO
SUPPORT UKRAINE. IT WAS NOT JUST
THE UNITED STATES BUT ALL OF OUR
ALLIES.
>> WHEN YOU REFERENCE HELP WITH
THE POLITICAL CAMPAIGN  IN THIS
TEXT MESSAGE, WHAT DID YOU MEAN?
>> I MEANT THAT THE
INVESTIGATION OF
BARIZMA AND THE BIDENS WAS
CLEARLY IDENTIFIED BY MR.
GIULIANI IN PUBLIC FOR MONTHS
AS A WAY TO GET INFORMATION ON
THE TWO BIDENS.
>> THAT INVESTIGATION AT THE
VERY LEAST  WAS MENTIONED BY
PRESIDENT TRUMP IN THE JULY 25
PHONE CALL WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> AS WE NOW KNOW, YES. ON
SEPTEMBER 25, THAT TRANSCRIPT
WAS RELEASED.
>> IN YOUR DECADES OF MILITARY
SERVICE  ORBITING THE UNITED
STATES AROUND THE WORLD, HAVE
YOU EVER SEEN ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF
FOREIGN AID CONDITIONED ON THE
PERSONAL OR POLITICAL INTEREST
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES?
>> NO, I HAVE NOT.
>> MR. KENT, THAT VITAL
MILITARY ASSISTANCE THAT WAS NOT
THE ONLY THING THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP WAS WITHHOLDING FROM
UKRAINE, WHAT ELSE WAS
CONTINGENT ON UKRAINE INITIATING
THESE INVESTIGATIONS?
>> AS WE TALKED EARLIER TODAY ,
THE POSSIBILITY OF A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING WAS BEING HELD
CONTINGENT TO AN ANNOUNCEMENT.
>> HOW IMPORTANT TO PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY WAS A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING?
>> NEW LEADERS AND PARTICULARLY
COUNTRIES THAT ARE TRYING TO
HAVE GOOD FOOTING IN THE
INTERNATIONAL ARENA SEE A
MEETING WITH THE U. S. PRESIDENT
IN THE OVAL OFFICE AT THE WHITE
HOUSE AS THE ULTIMATE SIGN OF
ENDORSEMENT AND SUPPORT FROM THE
UNITED STATES.
>> PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WAS A
RELATIVELY NEW PRESIDENT, IS
THAT RIGHT?
>> IS CORRECT . HE WAS ELECTED
ON APRIL 21 AND HIS GOVERNMENT
WAS FORMED AFTER PARLIAMENTARY
ELECTIONS IN JULY.
>> WOULD WHITE HOUSE MEETING
FOR TRENT TO BOOST HIS
LEGITIMACY IN UKRAINE?
>> IT WOULD PRIMARILY BOOST HIS
LEVERAGED TO NEGOTIATE WITH
VLADIMIR PUTIN ABOUT THE
OCCUPATION OF 7% TERRITORY.
>>
MR. KENT, IS PRESSURING UKRAINE
TO CONDUCT WHAT I BELIEVE YOU
CALLED INVESTIGATIONS A PART OF
THE POLICY TO PROMOTE THE RULE
OF LAW?
>> IT IS NOT.
>> IS IT WITHIN THE NATIONAL
INTEREST IN THE UNITED STATES?
>> IN MY OPINION, IT IS NOT.
>> ARE POLICIES IN THE ROLE OF
LAW ARE DESIGNED TO HELP
COUNTRIES WITH CENTRAL EUROPE
THAT IS OVERCOMING THE LEGACY OF
COMMUNISM AND IN PARTICULARLY
THE OFFICE WAS USED TO SUPPRESS
CITIZENS AND NOT PROMOTE THE
RULE OF LAW. IN HELPING THESE
COUNTRIES REACH THEIR OWN
ASPIRATIONS TO JOIN THE WESTERN
COMMITTEE OF NATIONS AND LIVE
LIVES OF DIGNITY, HELPING THEM
HAVE THE RULE OF LAW WITH STRONG
INSTITUTIONS
IS THE PURPOSE OF OUR POLICY.
>> IN OTHER WORDS, IT IS THE
PURPOSE OF OUR  FOREIGN POLICY
TO ENCOURAGE FOREIGN NATIONS
TO REFRAIN FROM CONDUCTING
POLITICAL INVESTIGATIONS? IS
THAT RIGHT?
>> CORRECT. AS A MATTER OF
POLICY AND NOT PROGRAMMING, WE
OFTEN TIMES RAYS ARE CONSUMED
USUALLY IN PRIVATE WITH
COUNTRIES THAT WE FEEL ARE
ENGAGED IN SELECTIVE POLITICAL
PROSECUTION AND PERSECUTION
OF THEIR OPPONENTS.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, NOW THAT
WE HAVE ESTABLISHED THAT YOU DID
ULTIMATELY UNDERSTAND THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP  WAS WITHHOLDING
SECURITY ASSISTANCE AND A WHITE
HOUSE MEETING FROM UKRAINE UNTIL
THEY ANNOUNCED THE
INVESTIGATIONS TO BENEFIT THE
REELECTION CAMPAIGN, LET'S GO
BACK A LITTLE BIT IN TIME TO
WHEN YOU FIRST LEARNED ABOUT
THIS CONDITIONALITY. ON
SEPTEMBER 1, A LITTLE MORE THAN
A WEEK ON THE TEXT YOU JUST
READ, THERE WAS ANOTHER TEXT
THAT WOULD ALSO BE ON THE SCREEN
IN FRONT OF YOU. IF YOU COULD
READ WHAT YOU WROTE TO THEM.
>> ARE WE NOW SAYING THAT
SECURITY ASSISTANCE  IN WHITE
HOUSE MEETINGS ARE CONDITIONED
ON INVESTIGATIONS?
>> AMBASSADOR
RESPONDED WITH, "CALL ME." WHAT
HAVE YOU LEARNED THAT PROMPTED
YOU TO WRITE THIS TEXT MESSAGE.
>> I HAD LEARNED THAT IN WARSAW
WITH THE MEETING THAT HAD
HAPPENED WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY, AMBASSADOR SOLOMON HAD
HAD MEETINGS THERE  AND HAD
DESCRIBED WITH THE ASSISTANT
THAT
THE SECURITY ASSISTANCE WAS ALSO
HELD PENDING ANNOUNCEMENTS BY
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY IN PUBLIC  OF
THESE INVESTIGATIONS. FOR THAT,
I HAD ONLY UNDERSTOOD FROM
AMBASSADOR SOLOMON THAT THE
WHITE HOUSE MEETING WAS
CONDITIONED AND AT THIS TIME
AFTER I HEARD OF THIS
CONVERSATION
,
IT STRUCK ME THAT THIS WAS ALSO
BEING HELD.
>> YOU SAID PREVIOUSLY THAT YOU
WERE ALARMED TO HEAR THIS. WHY
WERE YOU ALARMED?
>> IT IS ONE THING TO LEVERAGE
A MEETING IN THE WHITE HOUSE BUT
IT'S ANOTHER THING I THOUGHT TO
LEVERAGE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
AT WAR DEPENDENT ON BOTH OF THE
ASSISTANCE IN THE DEMONSTRATION
OF SUPPORT. IT WAS MUCH MORE
ALARMING
IN THE WHITE HOUSE MEETING WAS
ONE THING IN SECURITY ASSISTANCE
WAS MUCH MORE ALARMING.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, YOU
OUTLINED A DETAILED TIMELINE AND
WE HAVE A WRITTEN COPY HERE AND
YOU INCLUDED SOME PHRASES AND
WORDS IN QUOTATION.
DID YOU TAKE NOTES OF THIS
CONVERSATION ON SEPTEMBER 1
WITH AMBASSADOR SOLOMON?
>> I DID.
>> DID YOU TAKE NOTES RELATED TO
THE CONVERSATION IF NOT ALL OF
THEM  THAT YOU RECITED IN THE
OPENING STATEMENT?
>> ALL OF THEM.
>> WHAT ARE THOSE QUOTATIONS
THAT YOU INCLUDED IN YOUR
OPENING STATEMENT REFLECT?
>> THEY REFLECT MY NOTES ON THE
EXACT WORDS THAT I HEARD ON THAT
CALL. IF I PUT THOSE IN QUOTES,
THAT MEANT THOSE ARE THE WORDS
THAT WERE USED ON THAT PHONE
CALL OR IN THE CONVERSATION.
>> DID YOU REVIEW THOSE NOTES
BEFORE YOU DRAFTED YOUR OPENING
STATEMENT AND CAME TO TESTIFY ?
>> I DID.
>> IS THAT HOW YOU REMEMBER THAT
AMBASSADOR SOLOMON WAS ON A
TRAIN IN JULY?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> YOU ARE AWARE, I PRESUME
THAT THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAS
NOT PROVIDED THOSE NOTES TO THE
COMMITTEE, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> I AM AWARE.
>> WE DON'T HAVE THE BENEFIT OF
REVIEWING THEM?
>> CORRECT. I UNDERSTAND THEY
MAY BE COMING  SOONER OR LATER.
>> WE WOULD WELCOME THAT. YOU
ALSO TESTIFIED EARLIER
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAD DELEGATED SOME MATTERS
OVERSEEING UKRAINIAN POLICY TO
AMBASSADOR SOLOMON WHO WAS A BIG
SUPPORTER EVEN THOUGH UKRAINE IS
NOT IN HIS DOMAIN
,  IS THAT CORRECT?
>> SEVERAL PARTICIPANTS IN THE
MEETING AND IN THE OVAL OFFICE
WAS PRESIDENT TRUMP WITH THE
DELEGATION TO THE INAUGURATION
OF PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TOLD ME OF
THAT CONVERSATION
AND IT WAS AT THAT MEETING IF I
UNDERSTAND IT FROM SEVERAL
PARTICIPANTS THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP
ASKED THE PARTICIPANTS TO WORK
WITH MR. GIULIANI ON UKRAINE
POLICY.
>> DID YOU COME TO UNDERSTAND
THAT  AMBASSADOR SOLOMON HAD
COMMUNICATION INTO PRESIDENT
TRUMP?
>> I DID.
>> YOU TESTIFIED OR RATHER IN
THAT TEXT MESSAGE AMBASSADOR
SOLOMON SAYS TO CALL HIM AFTER
YOU WROTE THAT. DID YOU IN FACT
CALL HIM?
>> I DID.
>> WHAT DID HE SAY TO YOU?
>> HE SAID I WAS WRONG ABOUT
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S INTENT THAT
THERE WAS NO QUID PRO QUO.
>> DID HE SAY ANYTHING AFTER
THAT ? DID HE DESCRIBE TO YOU
AND I WILL REFRESH YOUR MEMORY.
YOU MENTIONED SOMETHING IN THE
OPENING STATEMENT THAT HE SAID
THAT EVERYTHING AND I BELIEVE
YOU HAVE THAT" WAS ACTUALLY
CONTINGENT ON THE INITIATION OF
THESE INVESTIGATIONS. WHAT DID
HE MEAN BY EVERYTHING?
>> WHAT HE MEANT BY EVERYTHING
WAS THE SECURITY ASSISTANCE IN
THE WHITE HOUSE MEETING.
>> I BELIEVE YOU ALSO TESTIFIED
THAT HE SAID  HE MADE A MISTAKE
IN RELAYING A MESSAGE TO THE
UKRAINIANS. WHAT WAS THAT
MISTAKE?
>> THE MISTAKE THAT HE TOLD ME
WAS EARLIER HE HAD TOLD
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  AND MR.
MERMOCK THAT WHAT WAS
NECESSARILY FOR THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING WAS THE PURSUIT OF THESE
INVESTIGATIONS. HE SAID HE
RECOGNIZED THAT IT WAS A MISTAKE
AND NOT JUST THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING THAT WAS DEPENDENT ON
THE INVESTIGATIONS BUT NOW
EVERYTHING INCLUDING THE
SECURITY ASSISTANT.
>> NOT JUST A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING BUT ALSO  SECURITY
ASSISTANT?
>> YES, SIR .
>> EVEN THOUGH HE WAS SAYING
REPEATEDLY THAT THERE WAS NO
QUID PRO QUO, AMBASSADOR SOLOMON
RELAYED TO YOU THAT THE FACTS OF
THE MATTER WERE THAT THE WHITE
HOUSE MEETING AND SECURITY
ASSISTANCE WERE CONDITIONED ON
THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THESE
INVESTIGATIONS.  THAT IS YOUR
UNDERSTANDING?
>> THAT IS MY UNDERSTANDING.
>> YOU REFERENCED A TELEVISION
INTERVIEW
AND A DESIRE FOR PRESIDENT TRUMP
TO PUT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY IN A PUBLIC
BOX WHICH YOU ALSO HAVE". WAS
THAT YOUR NOTES?
>> IT WAS IN MY NOTES.
>> WHAT DID YOU UNDERSTAND THAT
TO MEAN TO PUT  PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY IN A PUBLIC  BOX?
>> I UNDERSTOOD THAT TO MEAN
THAT  PRESIDENT TRUMP THROUGH
AMBASSADOR SOLOMON WAS ASKING
FOR PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  TO VERY
PUBLICLY COMMIT TO THESE
INVESTIGATIONS THAT IT WAS NOT
SUFFICIENT
.
>> DID YOU UNDERSTAND WHY WOULD
NEED TO BE PUBLIC AS OPPOSED TO
A PRIVATE CONFIRMATION?
>> I HAVE NO FURTHER INFORMATION
ON THAT.
>> DURING THIS TIMEFRAME IN
EARLY DECEMBER, DID YOU COME TO
UNDERSTAND THAT FROM YOUR
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
UKRAINIANS THAT UKRAINE
FELT PRESSURE BECAUSE OF THE
CONDITIONALITY WITH THE WHITE
HOUSE MEETING AND SECURITY
ASSISTANCE.
>> HERE IS WHAT I KNOW. I GOT
SEVERAL QUESTIONS  AND OTHER
OFFICIALS GOT SEVERAL QUESTIONS
AS WELL FROM UKRAINIANS ASKING
ABOUT THE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
AND WHAT I KNOW IS THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE WAS VERY IMPORTANT TO
TO THE UKRAINIANS. THEY HAD
BEGUN TO HEAR FROM AMBASSADOR
SOLOMON THAT THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE WAS NOT GOING TO COME
UNTIL THE INVESTIGATIONS WERE
PURSUED. WHAT I HEARD FROM THE
DEFENSE MINISTER AND WHAT
SENATOR JOHNSON AND SENATOR
MURPHY HEARD IN THEIR
CONVERSATION WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY  WAS THE CLEAR CONCERN
IN URGING CONCERN THAT
UKRAINIANS HAD ABOUT SECURITY
ASSISTANCE.
>> YOU ALSO DESCRIBE THE
CONVERSATION THAT YOU HAD WITH
AMBASSADOR SOLOMON
AND IN THAT CONVERSATION, YOU
DESCRIBED HOW HE USED THE TERM
STALEMATE. WHAT DID YOU CONSIDER
THAT TO BE?
>>
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND SAID THAT IF
WE DID NOT CLEAR THIS  UP IN
PUBLIC, WE WOULD BE AT A
STALEMATE. HE BEGAN THAT BY
REPEATING THIS IS NOT A QUID PRO
QUO BUT IF HE DID NOT CLEAR
THINGS UP IN PUBLIC, WE WOULD BE
OUT OF STALEMATE AND WHAT I
UNDERSTOOD IN THAT MEETING WAS
SECURITY ASSISTANCE WOULD NOT
COME.
>> EVEN THOUGH HE SAID THERE
WERE  NO QUID PRO QUO, HE THEN
WENT ON TO SAY BUT THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE WILL NOT COME UNLESS
THESE INVESTIGATIONS ARE DONE.
IS THAT WHAT YOU ARE SAYING?
>>
IN MY UNDERSTANDING, THAT WAS
WHAT WAS MET BY STALEMATE.
>> THERE WAS ALSO DISCUSSION YOU
HAD ABOUT  PRESIDENT TRUMP BEING
A BUSINESSMAN WHO WANTED TO HAVE
PEOPLE PAY UP BEFORE SIGNING THE
CHECK. WHAT DID YOU UNDERSTAND
THAT TO MEAN?
>> THIS WAS AN EXPLANATION THAT
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND GAVE ME
ABOUT HIS UNDERSTANDING  OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S THOUGHT
PROCESS.
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND IS A
BUSINESSMAN AND PRESIDENT TRUMP
IS A BUSINESSMAN AND HE WAS
EXPLAINING TO ME THE
RELATIONSHIP AND UNDERSTANDING
THAT A BUSINESSMAN WOULD HAVE
WHEN HE IS ABOUT TO SIGN A CHECK
AND BY THAT, HE CLEARLY MEANT
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
THINKING ABOUT OR HAD IN FRONT
OF HIM THE POSSIBILITY OF
PROVIDING SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO
UKRAINE. IT WAS SIMILAR TO
WRITING A CHECK TO SOMEONE YOU
ARE ABOUT TO SEND.
>> IT WAS HELD UP -- NOT JUST
THE MEETING, ALSO THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE. THAT IS EVERYTHING.
THOSE TWO DISCUSSIONS --
>> I UNDERSTAND. AGAIN, JUST TO
RECAP, YOU HAD THREE MEETINGS
WITH PRESENT ZELENSKY, NO
LINKAGE CAME UP.
AMBASSADOR ZELENSKY DID ANNOUNCE
HE WAS GOING TO DO THE
INVESTIGATION INTO THE BIDENS OR
--
>> TO POINT NUMBER 2. THE SECOND
SENTENCE.
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR RECALLS THAT
MR. MORRISON TOLD AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR THAT I TOLD MR. MORRISON
THAT I COULD MAKE THE MESSAGE ON
SEPTEMBER 21, 2019 AND
ACCORDANCE WITH VICE PRESIDENT
MIKE PENCE MEETING TO WARSAW.
LET ME READ IT ONE MORE TIME.
BASSITT OR TAYLOR RECALLS THAT
MR. MORRISON TOLD -- THAT I
CONVEYED THE MESSAGE ON
SEPTEMBER 1 IN CONNECTION WITH
VICE PRESIDENT
MIKE PENCE VISIT TO WARSAW AND
THE MEETING WITH PRESENT
ZELENSKY. WE HAVE SIX PEOPLE
HAVING FOUR CONVERSATIONS IN ONE
SENTENCE AND YOU TOLD ME THIS IS
WHERE YOU GOT THE CLEAR
UNDERSTANDING.  EVEN THOUGH YOU
HAVE THREE OPPORTUNITIES WITH
PRESENT ZELENSKY TO HELP  HIM
TELL YOU, WE WILL DO THE
INVESTIGATIONS TO GET THE EIGHT,
YOU NEVER MAKE THE ANNOUNCEMENT
OR NEVER TWEETS ABOUT IT. NEVER
DOES THE CNN REVIEW. AMBASSADOR
YOU WANT ON THE CALL, WERE YOU?
YOU DIDN'T LISTEN TO THE CALL?
>> I DID NOT.
>> YOU NEVER SPOKE WITH CHIEF OF
STAFF MICK MULVANEY?
>> YOU NEVER MET THE PRESIDENT?
>> I DID NOT.
>> PRESENT ZELENSKY NEVER MADE
AN ANNOUNCEMENT.  THIS IS WHAT I
CAN'T BELIEVE. AND YOU ARE THE
STAR WITNESS. YOU ARE THE FIRST
WITNESS. YOU ARE THE GUY, BASED
ON THIS. BASED -- I HAVE SEEN
CHURCH PRAYER CHAINS THAT ARE
EASIER TO UNDERSTAND IN THIS.
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR RECALLS MR.
MORRISON TOLD -- I HEREBY SWEAR
AND AFFIRM -- MR. MORRISON TOLD
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR THAT I
CONVEYED THE MESSAGE ON
SEPTEMBER 21 -- THIS HAPPENED BY
THE WAY. THIS ALL HAPPENS BY THE
WAY IN WARSAW. VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE MEETS WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY. AND GUESS
WHAT, THEY DIDN'T TALK ABOUT ANY
LINKAGE EITHER.
>> THE TIME OF THE GENTLEMAN HAS
EXPIRED.
>> THE ONLY RESPONSE
, I HAVE TWO RESPONSES. THANK
YOU MR. JORDAN. I'M GLAD TO TAKE
THIS QUESTIONS. LET ME JUST SAY,
THAT I DON'T CONSIDER MYSELF A
STAR WITNESS FOR ANYTHING. I
DON'T. I AM RESPONDING TO YOUR
QUESTIONS. I THINK I WAS CLEAR,
I'M NOT HERE TO TAKE ONE SIDE OR
THE OTHER OR TO IMPLICATE ANY
OUTCOME. LET ME RESTATE THAT.
THE SECOND THING IS, MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT ONLY
COMING FROM PEOPLE I TALKED TO.
WE GOT THAT. AND I THINK THIS
CLARIFICATION FROM AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND  WAS BECAUSE HE SAID HE
DIDN'T REMEMBER THIS. IN HIS
FIRST DEPOSITION. HE WANTED TO
KIND OF CLARIFY. BUT I THINK MR.
JORDAN, THE WAY I READ THIS, HE
REMEMBERS IT THE SAME WAY I DO.
>> AND IT IS REAL CLEAR?
>> IT IS VERY CLEAR.
>> THANK YOU AMBASSADOR TAYLOR.
>> GENTLEMEN, THANK YOU FOR YOUR
TESTIMONY TODAY. ONE OF THE
THINGS I FIND STARTLING ABOUT
THESE PROCEEDINGS IS THAT FACED
WITH VERY SERIOUS ALLEGATIONS,
RESIDENTIAL MISCONDUCT, MY
COLLEAGUES ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
THE AISLE DON'T ENGAGE OR DEFEND
THAT CONDUCT, RATHER THEY SPEND
THEORIES ABOUT LACK LEDGERS AND
STEELE DOSSIER'S AND STARTLING
REVELATIONS THAT UKRAINIANS
MIGHT HAVE BEEN UPSET A
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE SUGGESTED
THAT PERHAPS HE WOULD LET THE
RUSSIANS KEEP CRIMEA. WE GET THE
ATTACKS. IT EPITOMIZED BY MR.
NUNEZ AND HIS OPENING STATEMENT
WHEN HE ATTACKED DEMOCRATS,
ATTACKED THE MEDIA AND MOST
DISGUSTINGLY ATTACKED
THE EXTRAORDINARY MEN OF THE
STATE DEPARTMENT AND FBI. WHEN A
DEFENSE DOESN'T MERGE IT LOOKS A
LITTLE LIKE THIS. UKRAINE IS A
CORRUPT COUNTRY AND THE
PRESIDENT WAS JUST ACTING
IN A LONG LINE, LONG TRADITION
OF ACTUALLY TRYING TO ADDRESS
CORRUPTION IN UKRAINE. MR. KENT,
YOU WORKED ON ANTICORRUPTION AND
RULE OF LAW FOR MUCH OF YOUR 27
YEAR CAREER. IS THAT CORRECT?
>> I HAVE SPECIALIZED IN
ANTICORRUPTION RULE OF LAW
ISSUES SINCE 2012.
>> LIKE MOST OF US APPEAR, I
DON'T HAVE A GOOD SENSE OF WHAT
A REAL ANTICORRUPTION EFFORT --
WE MUST ENGAGE ALL OVER THE
WORLD, ALL THE TIME, WHAT IT
LOOKS LIKE. LET ME ASK YOU TO
TAKE A MINUTE AND CHARACTERIZE
FOR US WHAT A REAL INITIATIVE,
WHAT A REAL PROGRAM OF
ANTICORRUPTION MIGHT LOOK LIKE.
>> IF WE ARE DOING A SYSTEMIC
PROGRAM, YOU NEED TO INSTITUTE
WITH
INTEGRITY AND IT STARTS WITH
INVESTIGATORS, GOES TO
PROSECUTORS AND GOES TO COURTS.
EVENTUALLY GOES TO THE
CORRECTION SYSTEM.
>> LIKE UKRAINE, WE GENERALLY
START WITH LAW-ENFORCEMENT. THAT
IS WHAT WE DID IN 2014, 15 WITH
NEW PATROL POLICE.
THERE IS ALSO OFTEN TIMES NEEDED
A SPECIALIZED ANTICORRUPTION
AGENCY. IN UKRAINE THAT WAS
CALLED THE NATIONAL
ANTICORRUPTION BUREAU. THERE WAS
A DIFFERENT BODY THAT REVIEWED
ASSET DECLARATIONS FOR UNUSUAL
WEALTH CALLED NATIONAL
ANTICORRUPTION PREVENTION. AND A
EVENTUALLY WE GOT TO HELPING
THEM ESTABLISH A SPECIAL
ANTICORRUPTION PROSECUTOR. AND
EVENTUALLY A HIGH COURT ON
ANTICORRUPTION. THAT WAS TO TRY
TO CREATE INVESTIGATORS,
PROSECUTORS AND COURTS WITH
INTEGRITY THAT COULDN'T BE
BOUGHT AND WOULD BE FOCUSED ON
HIGH-LEVEL CORRUPTION.
>> WHAT I'M HEARING MR. KENT IS
A VERY COMPREHENSIVE EFFORT. LET
ME READ YOU
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S OWN WORDS TO
THE UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT IN THE
JULY 25 PHONE CALL. I QUOTE,
THERE'S A LOT OF TALK ABOUT
BIDEN'S SON. THAT BIDEN STOP THE
PROSECUTION AND A LOT OF PEOPLE
WANT TO FIND OUT ABOUT THAT.
WHATEVER YOU CAN DO WITH THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL WOULD BE GREAT.
AND WENT AROUND BREAKING HE
STOPPED THE PROSECUTION. IF YOU
CAN LOOK INTO IT, IT SOUNDS
HORRIBLE TO ME. WHEN YOU HEAR
THOSE WORDS, DO YOU HEAR THE
PRESIDENT PARTICIPATING IN
REQUESTING OF THOUGHTFUL AND
WELL CALIBRATED ANTICORRUPTION
PROGRAMS?
>> I DO NOT.
>> AND MR. KENT, AND MR. TAYLOR,
THE DEFENDERS OF THE PRESIDENT'S
BEHAVIOR HAVE MADE A BIG DEAL
OUT OF THE FACT THAT VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN ENCOURAGED THE
UKRAINIANS TO REMOVE A CORRUPT
FORM UKRAINIAN PROSECUTOR IN
2016.
AND IN FACT, SENATOR RAND PAUL
ON SUNDAY SAID AND I QUOTE HIM,
THEY ARE IMPEACHING THE
PRESIDENT FOR EXACTLY THE SAME
THING THAT JOE BIDEN DID. IS
THAT CORRECT? IS WHAT THE
PRESIDENT DID IN HIS PHONE CALL,
AND WHAT JOE BIDEN DID IN TERMS
-- ARE THOSE THESE SAME THINGS
AND IF NOT, HOW ARE THEY
DIFFERENT?
>> I DO NOT THINK THEY ARE THE
SAME THINGS. WHAT FORMER VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN REQUESTED OF THE
FORMER PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE WAS
THE REMOVAL OF A CORRUPT
PROSECUTOR GENERAL, VICTOR
SHOKAN WHO HAD UNDERMINED
A PROGRAM OF ASSISTANCE THAT WE
HAVE SPENT U.S. TAXPAYER DOLLARS
TO BUILD AN INDEPENDENT
INVESTIGATOR UNIT TO GO AFTER
CORRUPT EXECUTORS. THERE WAS A
CASE CALLED THE DIAMOND
PROSECUTOR CASE IN WHICH THEY
DESTROYED THE ENTIRE
ECOSYSTEM WE WERE TRYING TO
CREATE. THE INVESTIGATORS, THE
JUDGES WHO ISSUED THE WARRANTS.
THE LAW ENFORCEMENT THAT HAD
WANTS TO DO THE WIRETAPPING,
EVERYBODY TO PROTECT HIS FORMER
DRIVER WHO HE HAD MADE A
PROSECUTOR. THAT IS WHAT JOE
BIDEN WAS ASKING TO REMOVE THE
CORRUPT PROSECUTOR.
>> JOE BIDEN WAS PARTICIPATING
IN OPEN EFFORT TO ESTABLISH AND
ADDRESS CORRUPTION IN UKRAINE.
>> THAT IS CORRECT. BUT MR. KENT
AS YOU LOOK AT THIS MESS, RUDY
GIULIANI, PRESIDENT TRUMP, IN
YOUR OPINION WAS THIS A
COMPREHENSIVE AND WHOLE
GOVERNMENT EFFORT TO END
CORRUPTION IN UKRAINE?
>> REFERRING TO THE REQUEST IN
JULY?
>> EXACTLY.
>> I WOULD NOT SAY SO.
>> I DON'T THINK PRESIDENT TRUMP
WAS TRYING TO END CORRUPTION, HE
WAS TRYING TO AIM CORRUPTION IN
UKRAINE AT VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN.
AND AT THE 2020 ELECTION. I
YIELD THAT THE BALANCE OF MY
TIME.
>> MR. CONAWAY IS RECOGNIZED FOR
FIVE MINUTES.
>> I YIELD MY TIME TO THE
GENTLEMAN FROM TEXAS.
>>
I THINK THE GENTLEMAN AND I
THINK YOU BOTH FOR BEING HERE.
IT IS OBVIOUS FROM YOUR
TESTIMONY THAT YOU CARE A GREAT
DEAL ABOUT U.S.-UKRAINE
RELATIONS. IT IS CLEAR THAT YOU
ARE OPTIMISTIC ABOUT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, YOU
RELATED  ONE OF HIS FIRST ACTS
WAS TO REMOVE IMMUNITY FROM
DEPUTIES THAT HAD LONG BEEN A
SOURCE OF CORRUPTION. YOU HAD A
NUMBER OF PERSONAL DEALINGS WITH
HIM. HAS HE GIVEN YOU REASON TO
QUESTION HIS HONESTY OR
INTEGRITY?
>> NO, SIR.
>> YOUR PRIOR DEPOSITION, I
ASKED YOU, AND I WILL READ IT
THAT DIRECTLY. IF NO ONE IN THE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT IS AWARE OF
THE HOLD
, AS A MATTER OF LAW AND MATTER
OF FACT THERE CAN BE NO QUID PRO
QUO
FOR MILITARY AID. AND TO YOUR
KNOWLEDGE NO ONE IN THE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT WAS AWARE
OF THE WHOLE. YOUR ANSWER WAS,
THAT IS CORRECT. IS THAT STILL
YOUR TESTIMONY?
>> MR. RADCLIFFE, AT SOME POINT,
IN SEPTEMBER --
>> I'M TALKING ABOUT ON JULY 25.
>> I'M SORRY, YES THAT IS
CORRECT. THEY DID NOT KNOW THAT.
>> AS IT TURNS OUT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AGREED WITH YOU. ON
OCTOBER 10, PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
HOLDER  PRESS MARATHON WITH OVER
300 REPORTERS. WHERE HE SAID
REPEATEDLY, AND CONSISTENTLY,
OVER HOURS AND HOURS THAT HE
WOULD NOT AWARE OF A MILITARY
HOLD
DURING THE JULY 25 CALL. IN
FACT, IN HIS OFFICIAL PRESS
RELEASE, FROM THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT, AVAILABLE ON HIS
WEBSITE THAT I WILL BE
INTRODUCING INTO THE RECORD HE
SAID, OUR PHONE CONVERSATION
BEARS NO RELATIONS TO ARMS. THEY
BLOCK THE PROVISION OF MILITARY
ASSISTANCE PRIOR TO OUR
TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BUT THE
ISSUE HAD NOT BEEN DISCUSSED
DURING OUR CONVERSATION. I MEAN,
I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW. SO NOW, IN
ADDITION TO CONFIRMING THAT
BECAUSE HE HAD NO KNOWLEDGE,
THERE WAS NO QUID PRO QUO
INVOLVING MILITARY AID DURING
THAT CALL, PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
WENT ON TO CONFIRM A NUMBER OF
THINGS. THAT THERE WAS NO
PRESSURE
. THERE WERE NO CONDITIONS.
THERE WERE NO THREATS. ON
MILITARY AID. THERE WERE NO
CONDITIONS OR PRESSURE TO
INVESTIGATE BURISMA. OR THE 2016
ELECTION. THERE WAS NO
BLACKMAIL. THERE WAS NO
CORRUPTION OF ANY  TIME. DURING
THE JULY 25 CALL. AGAIN FROM HIS
A PITCH OFFICIAL PRESS RELEASE.
THERE WAS NO BLACKMAIL BECAUSE
IT WAS NOT THE SUBJECT OF
CONVERSATION WITH THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES. THERE WERE
NO CONDITIONS ON THE
INVESTIGATION. EITHER BECAUSE OF
ARMS OR BECAUSE OF THE SITUATION
AROUND BURISMA COMPANY.  HE TOLD
REUTERS, THERE WAS NO BLACKMAIL.
HE TOLD THE "LA TIMES", THERE
WAS NO PRESSURE OR BLACKMAIL
FROM THE UNITED STATES. HE TOLD
JAPAN, I WAS NEVER PRESSURED AND
THERE WAS NO CONDITIONS IMPOSED.
HE TOLD ABC NEWS, THE BBC, I'M
AGAINST CORRUPTION. THIS IS NOT
CORRUPTION. IT WAS JUST A CALL.
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT
IN FRONT OF THE WORLD PRESS AND
REPEATEDLY, CONSISTENTLY, OVER
AND OVER AGAIN, INTERVIEW AFTER
INTERVIEW THAT HE HAD NO
KNOWLEDGE OF THE MILITARY AID
BEING WITHHELD, "CALL,
NO PRESSURE, NO DEMANDS, NO
THREATS, NO BLACKMAIL, NOTHING
CORRUPT. UNLIKE THE FIRST 45
MINUTES THAT WE HEARD FROM THE
DEMOCRATS TODAY, THAT IS NOT
SECONDHAND INFORMATION, NOT
HEARSAY, NOT WHAT SOMEONE
OVERHEARD AMBASSADOR 2029 SAY.
THAT WAS DIRECT TESTIMONY. DO
YOU HAVE ANY EVIDENCE THAT HE
WAS LYING TO THE WORLD PRESS
WHEN HE SAID THOSE THINGS?
>>
MR. RADCLIFFE, IF I COULD
RESPOND.
>> MY TIME IS SHORT, YES OR NO.
>> I HAVE NO REASON TO DOUBT
WHAT THE PRESIDENT SAID IN HIS
--
>> VERY GOOD. IN THIS PEACH
MID-HEARING TODAY WHEN WE
IMPEACH PRESIDENTS FOR TREASON,
BRIBERY OR OTHER HIGH CRIMES,
WHERE IS THE IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE
IN THAT CALL? ARE EITHER OF YOU
HERE TO ASSERT THERE WAS
IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE IN THAT
CALL? SHOUT IT OUT. ANYONE?
>> MR. RADCLIFFE, CAN I RESPOND
AND REITERATE THAT --
>> I HAVE ONE MINUTE LEFT.
>> I'VE GOT --
I'M NOT HERE TO TAKE ONE SIDE OR
THE OTHER.
>> LET ME ASK YOU --
>> WOULD YOU LIKE TO ANSWER THE
QUESTION?
>> I WITHDREW THE QUESTION.
>> WE WILL SUSPEND THE CLOCK.
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, WOULD YOU
LIKE TO ANSWER THE QUESTION.
>> MR. RADCLIFFE, I WOULD LIKE
TO SAY THAT I'M NOT HERE TO DO
ANYTHING HAVING TO DO WITH
DECIDING ABOUT IMPEACHMENT. THAT
IS NOT WHAT EITHER OF US ARE
HERE TO DO. THAT IS YOUR JOB.
>> RESTORE THE TIME OF THE CLOCK
TO ONE MINUTE.
>> YOU CAN CONTINUE WITH 22
SECONDS.
>> FINE. MR. AMBASSADOR
, I THINK EVERYONE KNOWS THAT
HOUSE DEMOCRATS HAVE MADE UP
THEIR MIND TO IMPEACH THE
PRESIDENT.
THE QUESTION WE JUST LEARNED IS
WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE PREPARED
TO IMPEACH TWO. TO BE CLEAR, IF
HOUSE DEMOCRATS IMPEACH
PRESIDENT TRUMP FOR QUID PRO QUO
INVOLVING MILITARY AID THEY HAVE
TO CALL PRESIDENT ZELENSKY A
LIAR. THEY IMPEACH HIM FOR
ABUSING POWER, DEPRESSION OR
MAKING THREATS OR DEMAND THEY
HAVE TO CALL PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
A LIAR TO DO IT. IF THEY IMPEACH
PRESIDENT TRUMP FOR BLACKMAIL OR
EXTORTION OR MAKING THREATS OR
DEMANDS, THEY HAVE TO CALL
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  -- TRUMP A
LIAR TO DO IT. I YIELD BACK.
>> THE CHAIR ORGANIZES --.
>>
I YIELD MY MINUTES TO MY STEAMED
CHAIRMAN.
>> THANK YOU. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU'VE HAD THE
CHANCE TO READ THE TRANSCRIPTS
RELEASED, ARE YOU WHERE OTHER
WITNESSES HAVE TESTIFIED THAT
UKRAINE IN FACT FOUND OUT THE
AID WAS BEING WITHHELD
BEFORE IT BECAME PUBLIC
KNOWLEDGE?
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, I HAVE READ
THAT. I THINK THERE ARE SOME
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHEN THEY MAY
HAVE HURT.
>> ULTIMATELY THEY DID FIND OUT
WHEN THE POLITICAL STORY CAME
OUT. OTHERS HAVE SAID, EVEN
SOONER THAT THEY DID FIND OUT.
RIGHT, AMBASSADOR?
>> THEY DID.
>> AT THE TIME THEY FOUND OUT,
THEY KNEW WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
WANTED FROM THEM. THAT THEY
WANTED THE INVESTIGATIONS.
CORRECT?
>> AMBASSADOR SONDLAND,
INFORMED PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S
STAFF THAT
WHAT WAS REQUIRED. YES.
>> YOU CAN FIND OUT ABOUT THE
HOLD. YOU'RE NOT ABLE TO GIVE
THEM A REASON FOR THE WHOLE. NO
ONE IS ABLE TO GIVE THEM A
REASON FOR THE WHOLE. THEY KNOW
THAT THE PRESIDENT WANTS THESE
INVESTIGATIONS. THEN THEY ARE
TOLD BY WARSAW BY INVESTOR
SONDLAND, ESSENTIALLY YOU ARE
NOT GETTING THE AID UNLESS YOU
DO THESE INVESTIGATIONS. IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> YOU HAVE BEEN ASKED, HOW CAN
THERE BE CONDITIONING AT THE
UKRAINIAN DIDN'T KNOW  BUT
UKRAINIANS WENT TOLD BY
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND.
>> THEY WERE. THEY DIDN'T KNOW
IS NEAR AS I CAN TELL, THE
UKRAINIANS DID NOT KNOW ABOUT
THE HOLD ON THE PHONE CALL. ON
JULY 25, THAT'S TRUE. BUT THEY
WERE TOLD, AS HE SAID MR.
CHAIRMAN ON 1 SEPTEMBER.
>> IN FACT, THEY MAY NOT HAVE
KNOWN DURING THE TIME OF THE
CALL, THEY WOULD FIND OUT. AND
WHEN THEY DID FIND OUT, THEY
WOULD KNOW WHAT THE PRESIDENT
WANTED.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> MR. KENT, I WOULD LIKE TO
REFER YOU TO THE DISCUSSION OF
MAY 23 IN THE OVAL OFFICE. WHEN
THE PRESIDENT MET WITH THOSE WHO
HAD GONE TO THE UKRAINE FOR THE
INAUGURATION. YOU BRIEFLY
TESTIFIED THAT YOU HELPED
PROPOSED NAMES FOR INDIVIDUALS
TO GO TO THE INAUGURATION. WAS
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND, AMBASSADOR
TO  EUROPEAN UNION, ONE OF THE
NAMES THAT YOU SUBMITTED?
>> NO, IT WAS NOT.
>> BUT HE ULTIMATELY ATTENDED
THE INAUGURATION. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> DO YOU KNOW HOW HE ENDED UP
AS PART OF THAT OFFICIAL
DELEGATION?
>> I DO NOT KNOW FOR SURE BUT MY
UNDERSTANDING IS ONCE THE LIST
LEFT NFC STAFF AND WENT TO
REVIEW THROUGH THE PART OF THE
WHITE HOUSE THAT DETERMINES
PRESIDENTIAL DELEGATIONS.
>> JUSTIFIED ON RETURNING
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND USES QUOTE
CONNECTIONS WITH MULVANEY  TO
ORDER THE SECURED MEETING IN THE
WHITE HOUSE OFFICE.
>> IT SEEMS THE OVAL OFFICE
MEETING WAS A PIVOTAL TURNING
POINT IN THE UKRAINE POLICY.
COMING OUT OF THAT MEETING, WHO
WAS GIVEN RESPONSIBILITY TO YOUR
RECOLLECTION? WHO WAS GIVEN
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE UKRAINIAN
POLICY?
>> I NEVER SIGNED DOCUMENTS THAT
CHANGE THE NATURE OF POLICY
DETERMINATION IN THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT UNDER THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION --
>> DID YOU ALSO SAY -- YOU DID
SAY IN YOUR TESTIMONY THAT YOU
FELT THAT YOU TESTIFIED THAT THE
SECRETARY PERRY,
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND AND
AMBASSADOR VOLKER FELT THEY HAD
THE MANDATE TO TAKE THE LEAD
ON UKRAINE POLICY. DID YOU NOT?
>> THAT WAS AN ACCURATE
STATEMENT. THEY'RE FEELING
DOESN'T MEAN THAT SHE GOT
DELEGATED RESPONSIBILITY.
>> [ CAPTIONERS TRANSITIONING ]
.
>>> WAS IT NORMAL TO HAVE A
PERSON WHO WAS A PRIVATE CITIZEN
TAKE AN ACTIVE ROLE IN FOREIGN
DIPLOMACY.
>> I DID NOT FIND HIS PARTICULAR
ENGAGEMENT NORMAL, NO.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, YOU
TESTIFIED THAT THERE ARE TWO
CHANNELS, A REGULAR AND
IRREGULAR. WHAT DID YOU SEE AS
RUDY GIULIANI'S ROLE IN THE
UKRAINE POLICY?
>> COUNCILWOMAN, I CAME TO SEE
THAT MR. GIULIANI HAD A LARGE
INFLUENCE ON THE IRREGULAR
CHANNEL.
>> AND WAS THAT NORMAL? IS THAT
NORMAL TO HAVE A PRIVATE CITIZEN
OF THE UNITED STATES TAKE AN
ACTIVE ROLE IN DIPLOMACY?
>> IT IS NOT NORMAL. IT IS NOT
UNUSUAL TO ASK FOR PEOPLE
OUTSIDE THE GOVERNMENT TO GIVE
OPINIONS TO HELP FORM THE
POLICIES OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.
IT
IS UNUSUAL TO HAVE IS A PERSON
PUT INPUT IN THE CHANNEL THAT
GOES CONTRARY TO U.S. POLICY.
>> THANK YOU. I CREED BACK.
>> MR. TURNER, YOU'RE RECOGNIZED
FOR FIVE MINUTES.
>> THANK YOU. MR. KEPT, MR.
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, THANK YOU FOR
YOUR SERVICE. I HAVE A GREAT
DEAL OF APPRECIATION FOR YOUR
PROFESSION. YOU HAVE VERY LITTLE
DIRECT CONTACT WITH THE DECISION
MAKERS. A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
RESPONSIBILITY, AND NOT A LOT OF
AUTHORITY ON -- TO EFFECT U.S.
POLICY BILATERAL ENGAGEMENTS OR
MULTI-LOOT RULE MAKEMENTS.
YOU'RE TRYING TO SHEPHERD
THROUGH ISSUES WITH OUR ALLIES.
ONE EXAMPLE OF THAT, AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR SYOU TESTIFIED IN YOUR
PRIOR TESTIMONY THAT YOU HAVE
NOT HAD ANY CONTACT WITH THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT, SIR.
>> MR. KENT, HAVE YOU HAD ANY
CONTACT WITH THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES?
>> I HAVE NOT.
>> SO NOT ONLY NO CONVERSATION
WITH THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES ABOUT UKRAINE, YOU'VE NOT
HAD ANY CAN'T WITH THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES, CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> SO YOU BOTH KNOW THAT THIS
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY IS ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DON'T YOU? I MEAN THE MAN THAT
NEITHER ONE OF YOU HAVE HAD ANY
CONTACT WITH, YOU'RE THE FIRST
UP WITNESSES. I JUST FIND THAT A
LITTLE AMAZING THAT THE FIST UP
WOULD BE TWO PEOPLE WHO HAVE
NEVER HAD ANY CONTACT WITH THE
PRESIDENT HIMSELF. NOW, KURT
VOLKER DID HAVE CONTACT WITH THE
PRESIDENT AND THE PRESIDENT WITH
U CRAB. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, YOU
SAID HE IS A MA OF HIGHEST
INTEGGITY. AND I KNOW KURT
VOLKER AND HE SERVED AS THE
MATTO AMBASSADOR, AND THE
DIRECTOR OF THE MCCAIN INSTYTE.
HE IS OH OF THE HIGHEST
PROFESSIONAL ETHICS. ONE OF THE
MOSTENINGABLE PEOPLE OF EUROPE.
HE IS A TRUTHFUL PLAN, WOULD YOU
AGREE THAT HE IS OF THE HIGHEST
INTEGRITY?
>> I BELIEVE KURT VOLKER HAS
SERVED THE U.S. AS A PUBLIC
SERVANT VERY WE.
>> DO EITHER OF YOU HAVE ANY
EVIDENCE THAT MR. VOLKER LIED IN
HIS TESTIMONY TO THIS COMMITTEE?
DO EITHER OF YOU HAVE ANY
EVIDENCE THAT KURT VOLKER
PERJURED HIMSELF OR LIED
TO THIS COMMITTEE IN HIS
TESTIMONY. ANY EVIDENCE?
>> I HAVE NO EVIDENCE.
>> MR. KENT, I BELIEVE THAT
AMBASSADOR VOLKER'S DEPOSITION
WAS OVER 400 PAGES AND I DON'T
HAVE IT? FRONT OF ME.
>> BUT YOU HAVE NO EVIDENCE THAT
HE LIED OR PERJURED HIS?
>> I HAVE NO BASIS TO MAKE THAT
JUNKMENT, SIR.
>> WE'RE NOT IN THE COURT,
GENTLEMEN, AND IF WE WERE, THE
SIXTH AMENDMENT WOULD APPLY AND
MOST OF YOUR TWO TESTIMONIES
WOULD NOT BE ADMISSIBLE
WHATSOEVER, BUT I UNDERSTAND IN
YOUR PROFESSION, YOU DEAL IN
WORDS OF UNDERSTANDING, WORDS OF
BELIEFS AND FEELINGS BECAUSE IN
YOUR PROFESSION THAT'S WHAT YOU
WORK WITH TO TRY TO PULL
TOGETHER POLICY AND TO GO IN AND
OUT OF MEETINGS TO TRY TO FOR
LATE OPINIONS THAT EFFECT OTHER
PEOPLE'S DECISION MAKING. AND
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, HAVE YOU EVER
PREPARED FOR A MEETING THAT THE
PRESIDENT OR THE PRIME MINISTER
OF A COUNTRY OR WERE YOU TOLD
ONE THING BEFORE YOU WENT INTO
THE MEETING ABOUT WHAT IT WAS TO
BE ABOUT AND THE MEETING BE
ABOUT ANOTHER THING OR YOU GET
IN THERE AND THE BELIEFS OR
OPINIONS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
-- OR THE' 'PM WERE OTHER THAN
YOU BELIEVED?
>> YOU'RE ASKING IF I EVER
LEARNED SOMETHING NEW?
>> HAVE YOU EVER WALKED IN WITH
A BELIEF THAT YOU THOUGHT ABOUT
THE COUNTRY YOU WERE SERVING IN
AND FOUND OUT THEY WERE WRONG?
>> I LEARN SOMETHING IN EVERY
MEETING, MR. TURNER, BUT I --
YOU KNOW --
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, THE REASON
WHY THE SIXTH AMENDMENT DOES NOT
ALLOW HEARSAY IS IT IS UNRELY B
BECAUSE FREQUENTLY IT IS
UNTRUTHFUL. IT IS NOT FACTUAL.
IT MIGHT BE BELIEFS OR
UNDERSTANDINGS. AMBASSADOR, YOU
TESTIFIED ABOUT A NUMBER OF
THINGS THAT YOU HEARD. ISN'T IT
TRUE -- POSSIBLE THAT THE THINGS
THAT YOU HEARD WERE NOT TRUE?
THAT SOME OF THE BELIEFS AND
UNDERSTANDS THAT YOU HAD ARE NOT
ACCURATE, IN FACT, YOU'RE
MISTAKEN ABOUT SOME OF THE
THINGS YOU TESTIFIED TODAY ON A
FACTUAL BASIS, VERSUS A
PROFESSIONAL ASSESSMENT?
>> MR. TURNER, I AM HERE TO TELL
YOU WHAT I KNOW. I AM NOT GOING
TO TELL YOU ANYTHING I DON'T
KNOW. I AM GOING TO TELL YOU
EVERYTHING I DO KNOW.
>> BUT SINCE YOU LEARNED IT FROM
OTHERS --
>> THAT IS EXACTLY WHY I AM
HERE.
>> BUT SINCE YOU LEARNED IT FROM
OTHERS, YOU COULD BE WRONG,
CORRECT?
>> I AM TELLING YOU WHAT I HEARD
THEM TELL ME.
>> AND THEY COULD BE WRONG OR
THEY COULD BE MISTAKEN OR THEY
COULD HAVE HEARD IT INCORRECT
LIVE, RIGHT, AMBASSADOR TAYLOR?
>> PEOPLE MAKE MISTAKES.
>> RIGHT, SO YOU COULD BE WRONG.
SO I YIELD THE REST OF MY TIME.
>> THANK YOU FOR CREEDING.
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, THE GENTLEMAN
ASKED IF YOU COULD BE WRONG.
WERE YOU WRONG WHEN YOU SAID YOU
HAD
A CLEAR UNDERSTANDING THAT
PRESIDENT ZELLWEGER HAD TO
COMMIT TO AN INVESTIGATION OF
THE BIDENS BEFORE THE AID GOT
RELEASED AND THE AID GOT
RELEASED AND HE DIDN'T COMMIT TO
AN INVESTIGATION?
>> I WAS NOT WRONG ABOUT WHAT I
TOLD YOU WHICH IS WHAT I HEARD.
THAT IS ALL I SAID. I TOLD YOU
WHAT I HEARD.
>> AND THAT IS THE POINT. WHAT
YOU HEARD KID NOT HAPPEN. IT
DIDN'T HAPPEN. YOU HAD THREE
MEETING WHERE IS THE GUY. HE
COULD HAVE TOLD YOU. HE DIDN'T
ANNOUNCE HE WAS GOING TO DO AN
INVESTIGATION BEFORE THE AID
HAPPENED. IT IS NOT JUST COULD
IT HAVE BEEN WRONG. THE FACT IT
WAS WRONG BECAUSE IT DIDN'T
HAPPEN. THE WHOLE POINT WAS YOU
HAD A CLEAR UNDERSTANDING THAT
AID WILL NOT GET RELEASED UNLESS
THERE
IS A COMMITMENTS NOT MAYBE. YOU
USED CLEAR LANGUAGE, CLEAR
UNDERSTANDING AND COMMITMENT AND
THOSE TWO THINGS DIDN'T HAPPEN.
SO YOU HAD TO BE WRONG.
>> MR. JORDAN, THE OTHER THING
THAT WENT ON WHEN THAT ASSISTANT
WAS ON HOLD IS WE SHOOK THE
CONFIDENCE OF A CLOSE PARTNER IN
OUR RELIABILITY, AND THAT --
>> THAT IS NOT WHAT THIS
PROCEEDING IS ABOUT.
>> THE TIME HAS EXPIRED.
>> THAT IS NOT WHAT THIS WHOLE
THINNING HAS STARTED NOON.
>> TIME EXPIRED.
>> MR. AMBASSADOR, DID YOU WANT
TO FINISH YOUR ANSWER.
>> NO, THAT IS GOOD, MR. CLAIM.
>> AND I RECOGNIZE MR. CARSON
FOR FIVE MINUTES.
>> THANK YOU. I YIELD TO THE
CHAIRMAN.
>> I THANK THE GENTLEMAN FOR
YIELDING.
>> I WANT TO FOLLOW UP ON
QUESTIONS ABOUT PRESIDENT
ZELLWEGER'S STATEMENTS AFTER
THIS SCANDAL CAME TO LIGHT WHEN
HE WAS ASKED WERE YOU PRESSURED,
HOW THE PHONE CALL GO, ET
CETERA. UKRAINIANS, MR. KENT,
ARE PRETTY SOPHISTICATED ABOUT
U.S. POLITICS, ARE THEY NOT?
>> PERHAPS.
>> YOU WOULD AGREE THAT IF
PRESIDENT ZELLWEGER CONTRADICTED
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND SAID OF
COURSE I FELT PRESSURED, THEY
WERE HOLDING UP $400 IN MILLION
TEAR ASSISTANCE, WE HAVE PEOPLE
DYING EVERY DAY, IF HE WERE TO
CONTRADICT PRESIDENT TRUMP
DIRECTLY, THEY WOULD BE
SOPHISTICATED ENOUGH TO KNOW
THEY MAY PAY AUTO VERY HEAVY
PRICE WITH THIS PRESIDENT, IS
THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS A FAIR ASSESSMENT.
>> AND MR. ZELLWEGER NOT ONLY
HAD TO BOARY ABOUT RETRIBUTION
FROM DONALD TRUMP SHOULD HE
CONTRADICT DONALD TRUMP
PUBLICLY, HE ALSO HAS TO WORRY
ABOUT HOW HE IS PERCEIVED
DOMESTICALLY, DOESN'T HE,
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR?
>> PRESIDENT ZELLWEGER IS VERY
SENSITIVE TO THE VIEWS OF
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE WHO, INDEED,
ARE VERY ATTENTIVE TO
UKRAINIAN-U.S. POLITICS, YES.
>> SO IF PRESIDENT ZELLWEGER
WERE TO SAY I HAD TO CAPITULATE
TO THESE INVESTIGATIONS, AND I
WAS READY TO GO ON CNN UNTIL THE
AID GOT RESTORED, THAT WOULD
OBVIOUSLY BE HURTFUL TO HIM BACK
HOME, WOULD IT NOT?
>> HE CANNOT AFFORD TO BE SEEN
TO BE DEFERRING TO ANY FOREIGN
LEADER. HE IS VERY CONFIDENT IN
HIS OWN ABILITIES AND HE KNOWS
THAT THE UKRAINIAN PEOPLE EXPECT
HIM TO BE CLEAR AND DEFEND
UKRAINIAN INTERESTS.
>> MR. CARSON?
>> THANK YOU, CHAIRMAN.
>> MY COLLEAGUE TOUCHED BRIEFLY
ON THE CAMPAIGN TO REMOVE CAREER
DIPLOMAT AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH.
MR. KENT, YOU STATED IN PREVIOUS
TESTIMONY THAT YOU WERE AWARE OF
THE CAMPAIGN OF, QUOTE, SLANDER
AGAINST THE AMBASSADOR IN REAL
TIME WHICH BASICALLY UNFOLDED IN
THE MEDIA. WHERE DO YOU
UNDERSTAND THIS MISINFORMATION
CAMPAIGN WAS COMING FROM AND WHO
WAS PERPETUATING IT.
>> TO MY UNDERSTANDING, THE THEN
PROSECUTOR GENERAL OF UKRAINE,
NOW EX, MET RUDY GIULIANI IN NEW
YORK ON A PRIVATE VISIT IN
JANUARY. THEY HAD A SECOND
MEETING IN FEBRUARY. AND THROUGH
THE GOOD OFFICING OF THE FORMER
MAYOR OF NEW YORK, HE GAVE AN
INTERVIEW TO JOHN SOLOMON, THEN
OF THE HILL, IN EARLY MARCH AND
THE CAMPAIGN WAS LAUNCHED
ON MARCH 20th.
>>> A CORRUPT UKRAINIAN
PROSECUTOR GAVE AN INTERVIEW TO
A REPORTER IN THE UNITED STATES
AND MADE CLAIMS THAT THE
AMBASSADOR PROVIDED OFFICIALS
WITH A, QUOTE, DO NOT PROSECUTOR
LIST. SO DO YOU HAVE ANY REASON
TO BELIEVE THIS IS TRUE?
>> I HAVE EVERY REASON TO
BELIEVE IT IS NOT TRUE.
>> WHAT WAS THE REPUTATION OF
THE MAN WHO MADE THESE
ALLEGATIONS, SIR?
>> HE WAS A POLITICIAN OF LONG
STANDING. HE HAD BEEN MIN TEAR
OF INTERIOR AFTER THE
REVOLUTION. THE EMBASSY HAD GOOD
RELATIONS WITH HIM FOR YEARS. HE
WAS IMPRISONED BY THE PRESIDENT,
CAME OUT, WAS ELECTED MAJORITY
LEADER, OF THE THEN PRESIDENT'S
PARTY AND THEN BECAME PROSECUTOR
GENERAL IN THE SPRING OF 2016.
>> WHAT WAS YOUR EXPERIENCE WITH
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH? WAS SHE
WORKING HARD TO COMBAT
CORRUPTION IN UKRAINE, SIR?
>> SHE WAS DEDICATED, AS IS
EVERY U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL
IN UKRAINE TO HELP THE
UKRAINIANS OVERCOME THE LEGACY
OF CORRUPTION, WHICH THEY
ACTUALLY HAVE MADE A NUMBER OF
IMPORTANT STEPS SINCE 2014.
>> SO, IN FACT, BEFORE ALL OF
THIS HAPPENED, YOU AND YOUR
SUPERIORS AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT ASKED THE AMBASSADOR
TO EXTEND HER TIME IN THE
UKRAINE, CORRECT, SIR?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> DID YOU SUPPORT HER
EXTENSION?
>> I ASKED HER TO EXTEND UNTIL
THE END OF THIS YEAR TO GET
THROUGH THE ELECTION PSYCH UNTIL
UKRAINE AND THEN  UNDER THE
SECRETARY ASKED HER TO STAY
UNTIL 2020.
>> AND SOME PROBABLY DIDN'T LIKE
HER EFFORTS TO ROOT OUT
CORRUPTION IN UKRAINE, CORRECT?
>> IN MY TESTIMONY, YOU CAN'T
PROMOTE PRINCIPLED
ANTI-CORRUPTION OUT WITHOUT
PITTING OFF CORRUPT PEOPLE.
>> FAIR ENOUGH.
>> NOW, SOME OF THOSE PEOPLE
HELPED GIULIANI SMEAR HER, DID
THEY NOT?
>> THEY DID.
>> SO ULTIMATELY THAT SMEAR
CAMPAIGN PUSHED PRESIDENT TRUMP
TO REMOVE HER, CORRECT, SIR?
>> I CANNOT JUDGE THAT. WHAT I
CAN SAY IS RUDY GIULIANI'S SMEAR
CAMPAIGN WAS U BIGTOUS IN THE
FOX NEWS AND ON THE INTERNET AND
TWITTER SPHERE.
>> AND HAVE YOU EVER BEFORE SEEN
AN INSTANCE WHERE AN AMBASSADOR
WAS FORCED OUT BY THE PRESIDENT
FOLLOWING A SMEAR CAMPAIGN OF
MISINFORMATION ORCHESTRATED BY
THE PRESIDENT'S ALLY ?
>> I HAVE NOT.
>> NOR I.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN,
I FIELD BACK.
>>> THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN. MR.
TAYLOR, THIS SHOULD BE EASY
BECAUSE I AM GOING TO USE A LOT
OF YOUR WORDS FROM THE PREVIOUS
DEPOSITION AS WE GO FORWARD. IN
YOUR DEPOSITION YOU SPOKE OF
SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE AND ITS
RELATIONSHIP TO THE UNITED
STATES AND HOW MUCH YOU SUPPORT
THAT. IN 2014, YOU AND I A
QUOTING THIS, URGED THE OH BANNA
ADMINISTRATION TO PROVIDE LETHAL
WEAPONS IN ORDER TO DETER
FURTHER RUSSIA AGGRESSION. DID
THE OH BANNA ADMINISTRATION
PROVIDE LETHAL WEAPON ?
>> NO, SIR.
>> THEY PROVIDED BLANKETS. IN
YOUR DEPOSITION, THEY SAID
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S OBJECTION WAS
IT MIGHT PROVOKE THE RUSSIANS,
AND, IN FACT, YOU TESTIFY IN
YOUR DEPOSITION THAT THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION DIDN'T HAVE A
GOOD ARGUMENT SINCE RUSSIA HAD
ALREADY PROVOKED AND THEY HAVE
INVADED UKRAINE, IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT, SIR.
>> IT IS A SHAME YOU DIDN'T TAKE
THE ADVICE OF COMBAT VETERAN
LIKE YOU, SIR. SOMEONE WHO
UNDERSTANDS WHAT DETERRENTS
PROVIDE BECAUSE A LOT OF
UKRAINIAN LIVES COULD HAVE BEEN
SAVED IF HE HAD TAKEN YOUR
ADVICE. IN YOUR DEPOSITION, YOU
SAID, AND I QUOTE, HAPPY, YOU
WERE HAPPY WITH THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION'S ASSISTANCE. AND
IT PROVIDED BOTH LETHAL AND
FINANCIAL AID, DID IT NOT?
>> IT DID, SIR.
>> AND YOU ALSO STATED THAT IT
WAS A
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> NOW WE PROVIDE M. R. E.S AND
BLANKETS, THEY DO NOT DO THAT.
TODAY YOU SAID I WAS BEGINNING
TO FEAR THAT THE LONG-STANDING
U.S. POLICY OF STRONG SUPPORT
FOR UKRAINE WAS SHIFTING. I HAVE
A LITTLE TROUBLE WITH LONG
STANDING BASED ON WHAT WE JUST
TALKED ABOUT BECAUSE IT WASN'T
REALLY LONG STANDING, STRONG
SUPPORT. IT SEEMS TO ME, THE
STRONG SUPPORT CAME WITH THIS
ADMINISTRATION. WOULD YOU AGREE
WITH THAT, SIR? UNLESS YOU CAN
CONSIDER M. R. E.S AND BLANKETS
STRONG SUPPORT. I WOULDN'T CALL
IT LONG STANDING.
>> THE LONG STANDING I'M
REFERRING TO THERE IS THE
LONG-STANDING POLITICAL SUPPORT,
ECONOMIC SUPPORT AND INCREASING
MILITARY SUPPORT.
>> CERTAINLY THAT STRONG SUPPORT
CAME FROM CONGRESS.
>> IT DID.
>> BUT IT DIDN'T COME FROM THE
PREVIOUS ADMINISTRATION AS
COMPARED TO WHAT THIS
ADMINISTRATION HAS DECIDED TO
DO. THE STRONG SUPPORT CAME WITH
THIS ADMINISTRATION. NOT THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION. AND MAYBE
NOW WE UNDERSTAND WHAT PRESIDENT
OBAMA MEANT WHEN HE TOLD RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT MEDVEDEV THAT HE'D
HAVE MORE FLEXN 'T AFTER HIS
ELECTION. MAYBE --
ELECTIONABILITY WAS AFTER HIS
ELECTION. MAYBE THAT WAS TO
PROVIDE LETHAL AID TO THE
UKRAINE ALLOWING THE RUSSIANS TO
MARCH RIGHT IN AND KILL THE
UKRAINIANS. IN YOUR DEPOSITION,
YOU URNINGED THEM TO PROVIDE
LETHAL WEAPONS TO UKRAINE IN
ORDER TO FURTHER DETER RUSSIAN
AGGRESSION, AND NOW THEY HAVE
THAT UNDER THIS ADMINISTRATION,
DON'T THEY?
>> THEY HAVE THE JAVELINS, YES,
SIR.
>> THANK YOU. I'D LIKE TO YIELD
THE REMAINDER OF MY TIME TO MR.
AT CLIFF.
>> THANK THE GENTLEMAN FOR
YIELDING.
>> NO PRESSURE, NO DEMANDSNO
COMMISSIONS, NOTHING CORRUPT,
NOTHING ON THE L CAY THAT'S WHAT
WE HEARD PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY
SAY, AND BECAUSE HOUSE
DEMOCRATS' CHARGES AGAINST
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAVE BEEN
PUBLICLY, REPEATEDLY
CONSISTENTLY BEEN DENIED BY
PRESIDENT ZELL LEN SKI, YOU
HEARD THE -- ZELENSKYY, YOU
HEARD THE DEFENSE FROM CHAIRMAN
SCHIFF. HE IS LYING BECAUSE HE
HAS TO. HE HAS TO LIE BECAUSE
THE THREATS, THE DEMANDS, THE
BLACKMAIL, THE EXTORTION THAT
HOUSE DEMOCRATS ARE ALLEGING, IF
HE DIDN'T DO THAT, HE COULDN'T
POSSIBLY RISK MILITARY AID. HE
WOULD HAVE TO DO ANYTHING HE HAD
TO SECURE IT. THE PROBLEM WITH
THAT, THE WHOLE IN THAT ARGUE --
HOLE IN THAT ARGUMENT IS YOU
HAVE TO ASK YOURSELF WHAT DID
MR. ZELENSKYY ACTUALLY HAVE TO
DO TO GET THE AID? THE ANSWER IS
NOTHING. HE DID NOTHING. HE
DIDN'T OPEN ANY INVESTIGATIONS.
HE DIDN'T CALL ATTORNEY GENERAL
BILL BARR. HE DIDN'T DO ANY OF
THE THINGS THAT HOUSE DEMOCRATS
SAY THAT HE WAS BEING FORCED AND
COERCED AND THREATENED TO DO. HE
DIDN'T DO ANYTHING BECAUSE HE
DIDN'T HAVE
TO. I YIELD BACK.
>> YOU'RE ROADWAYED FOR FIVE
MINUTES.
>> THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN.
THANK YOU BOTH FOR YOUR TRUE
HEROIC EFFORTS, BOTH TODAY AND
ALSO THROUGHOUT YOUR CAREERS.
I'D LIKE TO START WITH YOU, MR.
KENT. IN YOUR TESTIMONY YOU SAID
THAT YOU HAD IN MID AUGUST, IT
BECAME CLEAR TO ME THAT
GIULIANI'S EVIDENTS TO BEGIN UP
POLITICALLY MOTIVATED
INVESTIGATIONS WERE NOW
INFECTING U.S. ENGAGEMENT WITH
UKRAINE LEAVE RABBLING PRESIDENT
ZELENSKYY'S DESIRE FOR A WHITE
HOUSE MEETING. MR. KENT, DID YOU
ACTUALLY WRITE A MEMO
DOCUMENTING YOUR CONCERNS THAT
THERE WAS AN EFFORT UNDERWAY TO
PRESSURE UKRAINE TO OPEN AN
INVESTIGATION TO BENEFIT
PRESIDENT TRUMP?
>> YES, MOM. I WROTE A
METROPLEXO TO THE FILE ON AUGUST
16th.
>> -- MEMO TO THE FILE ON AUGUST
>> BUT WE DON'T HAVE ACCESS
THAT?
>> I SUBMITTED IT TO THE STATE
DEPARTMENT SUBJECT TO THE
SUBPOENA.
>> AND WE HAVE NOT RECEIVED ONE
PIECE OF PAPER FROM THE STATE
DEPARTMENT RELATIVE TO THIS
INVESTIGATION. BOTH OF YOU HAVE
MADE COMPELLING CASES OF THE
IMPORTANCE OF UKRAINE TO EUROPE,
TO THE 70 YEARS OF PEACE, THE
BENEFIT THAT IT HAS TO THE
UNITED STATES' NATIONAL
SECURITY, AND OUR GOAL TO
CONTINUE TO SUPPORT SOVEREIGNTY
OF NATIONS. MEANWHILE, RUSSIA IS
VIOLENTLY ATTACKING
PEOPLE IN UKRAINE. SO
WITHHOLDING MILITARY AID, DOES
THAT WEAKEN UKRAINE?
>> WELL, I THINK IT SENDS THE
WRONG SIGNAL, AND IT DID FOR A
SHORT PERIOD OF TIME. THE
ASSISTANCE FROM THE F.Y. '19 WAS
RELEASED AND IS IN THE PROCESS
OF HEADING TOWARDS UKRAINE.
>> DOES IT EMBOLDEN RUSSIA WHEN
THERE WAS NO AID BEING SENT TO
THE UKRAINE?
>> I THINK THE SIGNAL THAT THERE
IS CONTROVERSY AND QUESTION
ABOUT THE U.S. DEPORT OF UKRAINE
SENDS THE SIGNAL TO VLADIMIR
PUTIN THAT HE CAN LEVERAGE THAT
AS HE SEEKS TO NEGOTIATE WITH
NOT ONLY UKRAINE BUT OTHER
COUNTRIES.
>> THANK YOU.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, I THINK
YOU MENTIONED THAT A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING FOR ZELENSKYY WOULD
BOOST HIS ABILITY TO YOSH GAIT
FOR A -- NEGOTIATE FOR A
PEACEFUL SETTLEMENT WITH
VLADIMIR PUTIN AND RUSSIA IN
GENERAL STHAT TRUE?
>> IT IS CERTAINLY TRUE THAT
U.S. SUPPORT FOR MR. ZHU LEN
SKI, PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY IN HIS
NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE RUSSIANS
VERY IMPORTANT AND WILL ENABLE
HIM TO GET A BETTER AGREEMENT
WITH THAT SUPPORT FROM THE
UNITED STATES, BOTH FROM THE
MILITARY ASSISTANCE BUT ALSO
JUST FROM THE POLITICAL
ASSISTANCE THAT WE CAN PROVIDE.
>> BUT HE HAS NOT YET HAD THAT
WHITE HOUSE MEETING, HAS HE?
>> HE HAS NOT.
>> I THINK IT IS IRONIC THAT THE
SOVIET-BORN LEV PARNAS WHO HAS
NOW BEEN INDICTED HAD A MEETING
WITH THE INSPECT THE WHITE HOUSE
AFTER PARTICIPATING IN A NUMBER
OF CAMPAIGN EVENTS FOR THE
PRESIDENT AND CONTRIBUTING $3
25,000 TO THE PRESIDENT'S PACK.
SO MAYBE IT IS ACTUALLY THE
REQUIREMENT THAT YOU GIVE MONEY
TO THE PRESIDENT'S PACK IN ORDER
TO GET THAT MEETING AT THE WHITE
HOUSE. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, IS IT
TRUE THAT THE PROSECUTOR GENERAL
NOW HAS OPENED AN
INVESTIGATION IN UKRAINE? THE
NEW PROSECUTOR GENERAL THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY HAS
APPOINTED IS, INDEED,
INVESTIGATING CRIMES IN GENERAL.
IS THAT YOUR QUESTION?
>> YES.
>> BUT --
>> HE IS IN OFFICE AND IS
INVESTIGATING CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
>> HAS HE SPECIFIED WHAT
INVESTIGATIONS HE HAS
UNDERTAKEN?
>> NO.
>> HE HAS NOT. ALL RIGHT. I
YIELD THE REST OF MY TIME TO
CHAIRMAN SCHIFF.
>> JUST A QUICK QUESTION. MY
COLLEAGUES, A COUPLE OF MY
COLLEAGUES REFERENCED THE
CONVERSATION, THE CONVERSATION
BETWEEN PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
PRESIDENT MEDVEDEV. YET, THAT
WAS IN 2012 THERE IS A
SUGGESTION THAT HE WAS SAYING HE
WAS GOING GO EASY ON RUSSIA OVER
THE INVASION OF UKRAINE. BUT
THAT TOOK PLACE -- THAT INVASION
TOOK PLACE TWO YEARS AFTER THAT
CONVERSATION. DO YOU BELIEVE
THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS GOING
EASY ON AN INVASION THAT HADN'T
HAPPENED YET, DO YOU?
>> I HAVE NO KNOWLEDGE.
>> IT WAS MORE OR LESS A
RHETORICAL QUESTION. I WILL
YIELD NOW TO MR. STEWART -- I'M
SORRY. MR. STEWART. YES.
>> THANK YOU. TO THE WITNESSES,
THANK YOU. TIME IS PRECIOUS, SO
I AM GOING TO GO VERY, VERY
QUICKLY. WELCOME, I THINK, TO
YEAR FOUR OF THE ONGOING
IMPEACHMENT OF PRESIDENT TRUMP.
I AM SORRY THAT YOU HAVE BEEN
DRAG INTOED THIS. I THINK THE
SIGN BEHIND ME SAYS IT VERY
WELL. BY THE MYS L BLOWER'S --
WHISTLE BLOWER'S ATTORNEY. AFTER
LISTENING FOR WHAT HAS BEEN
GOING ON NOW FOR FOUR HOURS AND
21 MINUTES, AFTER ALL OF THE
SECRET HEARINGS, AFTER ALL OF
THE LEAKS, AFTER HEARING
WITNESSES SUCH AS YOURSELVES
GIVE YOUR OPINIONS, IT REALLY
COMES DOWN DO THIS ONE THING.
ONE THING THAT COMES DOWN TO.
THIS IS A THE TRANSCRIPT THAT
THE PRESIDENT HAS RELEASED OF
THIS PHONE CALL. THERE IS ONE
SENTENCE, ONE PHONE CALL. THAT
IS WHAT THIS ENTIRE IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDING IS BASED UPON. AND I
HAVE TO TELL YOU IF YOUR
IMPEACHMENT CASE IS SO WEAK THAT
YOU HAVE TO LIE AND EXAGGERATE
ABOUT IT TO CONVINCE THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT THEY NEED
TO REMOVE THIS PRESIDENT, THEN
YOU'VE GOT A PROBLEM. AND THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE BEEN LIED
TO AGAIN AND AGAIN ON THIS. WE
FIRST HEARD A LOT ABOUT QUID PRO
QUO. AND THEN MANY PEOPLE
REALIZED THAT WAS MEANINGLESS,
SO THEY SAID LET'S GO FOR THE
FENCES. LET'S TALK ABOUT
EXTORTION, BRIBERY, COVER-UP AND
OBSTRUCTION, FOR WHICH THERE IS
ZERO EVIDENCE OF ANY OF THAT. WE
HEARD A DARK STATION OF THE
PRESIDENT'S -- CHARACTERIZATION
OF THE PRESIDENT'S PHONE CALL
THAT WAS SO OUTRAGEOUSLY
INACCURATE THAT IT HAD TO BE
DESCRIBED AS A PARODY. NONE OF
IT MATTERS. IT COMES DOWN TO
THIS. WE APPRECIATE YOUR
INSIGHT. WE AAPPRECIATE YOUR
OPINION BUT ALL YOU CAN DO IS
GIVE YOUR OPINION OF THIS, THIS
ONE PHONE CALL. LET ME ASK YOU,
GENTLEMAN. BOTH OF YOU WHO HAVE
SAT HERE TODAY, YOU TESTIFIED
CORRUPTION IN THE UKRAINE IS
ENDEMIC. WOULD WE AGREE ON THAT?
SIMPLE QUESTION. THE PROBLEM IS
--
>> IT IS A PROBLEM AND THEY ARE
TAKING STEPS TO ADDRESS IT.
>> EARLIER IN THE HEARING BOTH
SAID YOU USED THE WORD ENDEMIC
OR AGREED TO IT. IT IS IN THE
COURTS, OLLIE GARTS,
PROSECUTORS, IT IS EVERYWHERE. I
THINK WE CAN ALSO AGREE THAT IS
NOT THE ONLY PLACE IN THE WORLD
WHERE WE EXPERIENCE AND SEE
CORRUPTION. THERE ARE DOZENS AND
DOZENS OF NATIONS THAT ARE
STEEPED IN CORRUPTION. WOULD YOU
AGREE WITH THAT?
>> I WOULD SAY THAT THERE IS
CORRUPTION IN EVERY COUNTRY,
INCLUDING OURS.
>> OKAY. THANK YOU.
>> AND SOME WE'RE CLEARLY MORE
CONCERNED ABOUT THAN OTHERS. IN
THESE CORRUPT NATIONS IN WHICH
THERE ARE PROBABLY HUNDREDS OF
CORRUPT INDIVIDUALS, HUNDREDS OF
CORRUPT GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS ,
CAN YOU GIVE ME AN EXAMPLE OF
ANY TIME WHERE THE VICE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
SHOWS UP AND DEMANDS THAT A
SPECIFIC PROSECUTOR BE FIRED AND
GIVES THEM AUTO SIX-HOUR TIME
LIMIT -- A SIX-HOUR TIME LIMIT
TO DO THAT? ARE YOU AWARE OF
THAT EVER HAPPENING ANY OTHER
PLACE?
>> I GUESS THE ANSWER IS NO. AND
I JUST THINK IT IS INTERESTING
THAT OUT OF HUNDREDS OF CORRUPT
INDIVIDUALS, DOZENS OF CORRUPT
NATIONS, THAT HAPPENED ONE TIME,
AND IT HAPPENED WITH THE
INDIVIDUAL WHOSE SON WAS BEING
PAID BY THE ORGANIZATION THAT
WAS UNDER INVESTIGATION. ONE OF
THE THING -- OTHER THING VERY
QUICKLY. IF SOMEONE WAS A
CANDIDATE FOR POLITICAL OFFICE,
EVEN FOR PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES, SHOULD THEY BE
IMMUNE FROM INVESTIGATION?
>> NO ONE IS ABOVE THE LAW, SIR.
>> THANK YOU. I WOULD AGREE WITH
THAT. I THINK WE ALL IT WOULD
AGREE WITH THAT. THEY ARE IMMUNE
FROM ANY QUESTIONS OR
INVESTIGATIONS. I THINK IT IS
ABSURD. THOSE OF US IN PUBLIC
OFFICE, THOSE OF US WHO FIND
OURSELVES UP FOR RE-ELECTION ALL
THE TIME AS A CANDIDATE, I THINK
WE HAVE A HIGHER STANDARD, NO,
MA'AM IMMUNITY FROM ASKING THESE
TYPE OF QUESTIONS AND THE LAST
THING BEFORE I YIELD MY TIME.
AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS. THE
LANGUAGE IS SPECIFIC.
AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS UNDER
ASSISTANCE TO THE UKRAINE, IT
HAS TO BE CERTIFIED. AND WHAT
HAS TO BE CERTIFIED? QUOTE, FOR
THE PURPOSES OF DECREASING
CORRUPTION. ARE YOU SURPRISED
THAT THERE WOULD BE QUESTIONS
ABOUT CORRUPTION IN UKRAINE AND
THAT IT WOULD BE DISCUSSED WITH
WITHHOLDING THAT IS ACTUALLY
REQUIRED BY LAW THAT IT BE
WITHHELD IF THEY CAN'T CERTIFY
THAT CORRUPTION HAS BEEN
ELIMINATED OR ADDRESSED?
>> THE CERTIFICATION IN THAT
CASE IS DONE BY THE SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE UPON ADVICE OF HIS STAFF
IN CONSULTATION WITH THE INNER
AGENCY COMMUNITY. WE WERE FULLY
SUPPORTIVE OF THAT CONDITION AND
THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE HAD
ALREADY CERTIFIED THAT THAT
CONDITION ALITY HAD BEEN MET.
>> SO WE AGREE WE SHOULD WITHHOD
FUNDS IF THERE ARE QUESTIONS OF
CORRUPTION THAT HAVE NOT BEEN
ADDRESSED.
>> I'M GOING TO YIELD THE REST
OF MY TIME TO MR. JORDAN.
>> 1 SECONDS. ARE YOU GOING TO
LET THAT GO.
>> THANK YOU.
>> IN THAT CASE I WILL YIELD
BACK. THANK YOU.
>> MR. QUICKLY.
>> SO THAT CERTIFICATION, THAT
TOOK PLACE IN MAY, IS THAT
CORRECT, MR. KENT?
>> I DO NOT BELIEVE IT WAS
CERTIFIED BY MAY. I WOULD DEAF
TO MY COLLEAGUE LORI COOPER WHO
HAS TESTIFIED.
>> IT HAD NOT BEEN DONE BY MAY
BECAUSE WHEN I WAS VISITING IN
MAY, I WAS ASKED BY LAURA TO
RAISE A SPECIFIC ISSUE THAT
WOULD MEET THE CONDITION ALITY.
>> BUT THE D.O.D. DID SAY THEY
MET THE CERTIFICATION?
>> YES, SIR. I THINK IT MAY HAVE
BEEN IN THE JULY TIME FRAME.
>> YES, SIR.
>> THANK YOU.
>> IT IS INTERESTING AND CURIOUS
THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HEARSAY
EVIDENCE. IT IS EXTRAORDINARY TO
ME THAT HE HAS -- THE COMMITTEE
HAS BEEN ABLE TO GET AS MUCH
INFORMATION HE HAD GIVEN THE
INSTRUCTION. YOU GENTLEMEN WERE
BOTH ASKED BY THE STATE
DEPARTMENT NOT TO APPEAR FOR
YOUR DEPOSITIONS, IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> WE BOTH RECEIVED -- I
RECEIVED INITIALLY A LETTER
DIRECTING ME NOT TO APPEAR, AND
ONCE THE COMMITTEE HAS ISSUED A
SUBPOENA, I WAS UNDER LEGAL
OBLIGATION TO HERE AND I AM HERE
TODAY UNDER SUBPOENA.
>> AMBASSADOR, WERE YOU ALSO
ASKED NOT TO BE PART OF THE
DEPOSITION?
>> MR. QUICKLY, I WAS TOLD --
QUIGLEY, I WAS TOLD BY THE STATE
DEPARTMENT DON'T APPEAR UNDER
THESE CIRCUMSTANCES. THAT WAS IN
THE LETTER TO ME. AND WHEN I GOT
THE SUBPOENA EXACTLY AS MR. KENT
SAID, THAT WAS DIFFERENT
CIRCUMSTANCES AND OBEYING A
LEGAL SUBPOENA, SO I AM HERE FOR
THAT REASON.
>> ABSOLUTELY ST BUT WE'RE NOT
ABLE TO HEAR TESTIMONY FROM
CHIEF OF STAFF MULVANEY, MORE
THAN A DOZEN WITNESSES, WHO I
SUSPECT IF YOU HAVE A PROBLEM
WITH HEARSAY, YOU'D HAVE A LOT
MORE DIRECT TESTIMONY AND DIRECT
EVIDENCE IF YOU WEREN'T BLOCKING
THAT ABILITY. YOU'D HAVE A LOT
MORE DOCUMENTS, DOCUMENTS THAT
YOU REFERRED TO WITH MY
COLLEAGUE'S QUESTION THAT HAD
NOT YET BEEN TUBBED OVER BY A
STATE OR ANY OTHER AGENCY, IS
THAT CORRECT, TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE,
GENTLEMEN?
>> WE'RE BOTH HERE UNDER
SUBPOENA. I DON'T THINK EITHER
OF SUS GOING TO COMMENT WHY
OTHERS HAVE NOT SHOWN UP.
>> HAVE ANY OF THE DOCUMENTS YOU
TURNED OTHER, TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE
VBEEN TURNED OVER TO THE
COMMITTEE?
>> NO.
>> MR. KENT, FOLLOWING THE JULY
25th CALL AND THROUGH THE FIRST
TWO WEEKS OF AUGUST, WERE YOU
INVOLVED IN ANY EFFORTS TO
ARRANGE FOR PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY
TO MAKE A STATEMENT ANNOUNCING
THE TWO INVESTIGATIONS THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD TALKED ABOUT
IN THE JULY 25th CALL?
>> I WAS NOT, AND I WOULD NEVER
HAVE PARTICIPATED IN AN
ARRANGEMENT TO HAVE THEM
ANNOUNCING INVESTIGATIONS.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, WERE YOU
INVOLVED IN ANY SUCH EVIDENT ?
>> NO, SIR.
>> I WANT TO SHOW YOU A TEXT OF
THE EXCHANGE. THIS ONE IS
BETWEEN THE AMBASSADOR VOLKER,
AND THE AIM AIDE THAT ZELENSKYY
AND VOLKER TEXTED BEFORE THE
JULY 25th CALL. YOU WERE
INVOLVED IN IT SO I'LL READ IT.
THE FIRST TEXT IS FROM AUGUST
10th, VOLKER, I AGREE WITH YOUR
APPROACH. PRESS CAN GO FORWARD
CAN IT. AND THEN AT 5:42, THE
RESPOND, ONCE WE HAVE A DATE,
WE'LL CALL FOR A PRESS BRIEFING
ANNOUNCING UPCOMING VISIT, AN
VISION FOR U.S.-UKRAINE
RELATIONSHIP, INCLUDING, AMONG
OTHER THICKS, BURISMA AND
ELECTION MEDDLING
INVESTIGATIONS. ONCE WE HAVE A
DATE, THEY WILL ANNOUNCE THE
INVESTIGATIONS IN BURISMA AND
ELECTION MEDDLING. MR. KENT, ARE
THESE THE SAME TWO
INVESTIGATIONS PRESIDENT TRUMP
ASKED THE UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT TO
INITIATE IN THE JULY 25th
MEETING, 25th CALL?
>> THOSE APPEAR TO BE THE SAME
ISSUES MENTIONED IN THE CALL AS
WELL AS THE MEDIA CAMPAIGN IN
MARCH LED BY RUDY GIULIANI.
>> AS THE DAY-TO-DAY STATE
DEPARTMENT PERSON ON UKRAINE
POLICY, WERE YOU AWARE OF THIS
PRESIDENT TO PERSUADE MR.
ZELENSKYY TO ISSUE A STATEMENT
IN ORDER TO GET A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING?
>> WHEN THIS EXCHANGE HAPPENED
ON AUGUST 10th, I WAS NOT.
>> WHEN DID YOU LEARN ABOUT
THEM?
>> AS AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
REFERENCED THEM EARLIER IN THE
TESTIMONY, ANSWERING HE HEARD ON
AUGUST 16th. HE THEN CALLED ME
AND WE HAD A CONVERSATION. AT
THAT POINT I MEMORIALIZED MY
CONCERNS IN A NOTE TO THE FILE.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, AS THE
POINT PERSON ON THE GROUND IN
UKRAINE, WERE YOU AWARE OF THIS
EFFORT TO GET UKRAINE TO ISSUE
THIS WRITTEN STATEMENT IN EARLY
AUGUST?
>> NOT THE WRITTEN STATEMENT,
NO, SIR.
>> SO THE ENTIRE DISCUSSION
ABOUT A PUBLIC STATEMENT ABOUT
THE TWO INVESTIGATIONS PRESIDENT
TRUMP WANTED WAS DONE IN WHAT
YOU HAVE DESCRIBED AS ARN
IRREGULAR CHANNEL INVOLVING
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND AND VOLKER
AND THE TASK TO TAKE ON UKRAINE
POLICY BY THE PRESIDENT, ISN'T
THAT CORRECT, MR. KENT?
>> THAT WOULD BE MY
UNDERSTANDING.
>> AMBASSADOR?
>>
THE SAME.
>> AND HEARSAY, I THINK THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE NEEDS A REMINDER
THAT COUNTLESS PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
CONVICTED ON HEARSAY BECAUSE THE
COURTS HAVE ROUTINELY ALLOWED
AND CREATED METED EXCEPTIONS TO
HEARSAY. HEARSAY CAN BE MUCH
BETTER EVIDENCE THAN DIRECT AS
WE HAVE LEARNED IN PAINFUL
INSTANCES, AND CERTAINLY VALID
IN THIS INSTANCE.
>> AND ANYONE OF THOSE
EXCEPTIONS WOULD APPLY TO THIS
TESTIMONY.
>> AND THE TIME -- THIS IS NOT
THE
TIME FOR COLLOQUY.
>> THE TWO MOST IMPORTANT FACTS
ARE THE FOLLOWING. NUMBER ONE,
UKRAINE RECEIVED THE AID. NUMBER
TWO, THERE WAS, IN FACT, NO
INVESTIGATION INTO BIDEN. AND
MR. KENT AND AMBASSADOR TAYLOR,
YOU BOTH SPOKE ELOQUENTLY AND
PASSIONATELY ABOUT THE NEED TO
SUPPORT UKRAINE TO COUNTER
RUSSIAN AGGRESSION, PARTICULARLY
DURING THIS VERY CRITICAL TIME.
I AGREE WITH YOU IN THAT
ASSESSMENT. AND ISN'T
CONSTITUENT CASE THAT THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION HAS, INDEED,
PROVIDED SUBSTANTIAL AID TO
UKRAINE IN THE FORM OF DEFENSIVE
LETHAL AID, CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> AND THAT IS MORE SO THAN THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION, CORRECT?
>> THE --
>> DEFENSIVE LETHAL AID.
>> YES.
>> AND IN THE TRANSCRIPT OF THE
PRESIDENT'S JULY 25th CALL WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT
ZELENSKYY TELLS PRESIDENT TRUMP
THEY ARE READY TO BUY MORE
JAVELINS.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> AND THOSE JAVELINS WERE NOT
MADE AVAILABLE TO UKRAINE UNDER
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION? THE
JAVELINS WERE NOT MADE
AVAILABLE?
>> THEY WERE NOT.
>> CORRECT.
>> AND SHIFTING GEARS TO
CORRUPTION, ONE OF THE THEMES
HERE TODAY IS THAT OF ROOTING
OUT CORRUPTION, WHICH IS AN
IMPORTANT TOOL FOR THE PRESIDENT
AS WE PROVIDE STACKS PAYER
FUNDED AID TO FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
MR. KENT, YOU WOULD CHARACTERIZE
UKRAINE AS HAVING LONG STANDING
CORRUPTION ISSUES, CORRECT?
>> I DID.
>> YOU TESTIFIED, QUOTE, I WOULD
SAY THAT CORRUPTION IS PART OF
THE REASON WHY UKRAINIANS CAME
OUT TO THE STREETS IN BOTH 2004
WHEN SOMEBODY TRIED TO STEAL THE
ELECTION AND AGAIN IN 2014
BECAUSE OF A CORRUPTION
PRORUSSIAN GOVERNMENT WHICH
EVENTUALLY COLLAPSED. UKRAINIANS
DECIDED ENOUGH WAS ENOUGH. IS
THAT YOUR TESTIMONY?
>> IT REMAINS SO.
>> AND YOU TESTIFIED THAT YOU
FIRST CAME TO LEARN ABOUT
BURISMA IN 2015 WHEN YOU WERE
THE SENIOR ANTI-CORRUPTION
COORDINATOR, CORRECT?
>> CORRECT. DETAILS OF THE
EMBASSY IN KEVE
AS THE ACTING INTEREST.
>> AND YOU SAID IT WAS IN THE
U.S. INTEREST, QUOTE, AND THIS
IS FROM YOUR DEPOSITION, WE HAD
MADE A COMMIT TOM THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT IN 2014 TO TRY TO
RECOVER AN ESTIMATED TENS OF
BILLIONS OF STOLEN ASSETS OUT OF
THE COUNTRY. IS THAT CORRECT?
>> THAT IS A -- STOLEN ASSETS
THAT WERE IN THE NAME OF THE
OWNER BURISMA. AND HE WAS THE
ONE WHO WE BELIEVE WHO HAD
STOLEN THE MONEY.
>> SO THE FIRST CASE, THIS WAS
THE FIRST CASE THAT THE U.S. THE
U.K. AND THE UKRAINE
INVESTIGATORS WORKED ON WAS
AGAINST THE OWNER OF BURISMA?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> AND THIS WAS DURING THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> SO FOR THE MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS VIEWING, THE FIRST
INVESTIGATION AGAINST THE OWNER
OF BURISMA WAS UNDER PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S ADMINISTRATION?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> YOU TESTIFIED ALSO, QUOTE, WE
SPENT ROUGHLY HALF A MILLION
DOLLARS OF STATE DEPARTMENT
MONEY IN SUPPORT OF THE FBI AND
THIS INVESTIGATION TO BUILD
CAPACITY AND TRACK DOWN STOLEN
ASSETS, END QUOTE. IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT. IT WAS
LAUNCHED IN MAY 2014 BY THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE U.S. AND
THE U.K. IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE
WORLD BANK.
>> AND, IN FACT, BY 2016 YOU
WERE SO CONCERNED ABOUT
CORRUPTION QUESTIONS RELATED TO
BURISMA THAT WHEN THERE WAS AN
EFFORT BY BURISMA TO SPONSOR
ABESSAY CONTEST WITH USA, YOU
ASKED THEM TO STOP IT.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> AND YOU TESTIFIED THAT IT WAS
BECAUSE, QUOTE, BURISMA HAD A
POOR REPUTATION IN THE BUSINESS,
AND THAT YOU DIDN'T THINK IT WAS
APPROPRIATE FOR THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT TO BE CO-SPONSORING
SOMETHING WITH A COMPANY THAT
HAD A BAD REPUTATION. CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
>> YOU WERE ALSO AWARE, AND YOU
TESTIFIED TODAY THAT HUNTER
BIDEN SERVED ON THE BOARD OF
BURISMA.
>> CORRECT.
>> AND YOU ALSO TESTIFIED THAT
YOU WERE, INDEED, CONCERNED
ABOUT THE APPEARANCE OF CONFLICT
OF INTEREST.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> AND BROADLY, THIS IS VERY
IMPORTANT, YOU TESTIFY IN YOUR
DEPOSITION THAT WHEN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT EVALUATES FOREIGN
ASSISTANCE, IT IS APPROPRIATE
FOR THEM TO LOOK AT LEVELS OF
CORRUPTION IN COUNTRIES.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> AND LASTLY, YOU ALSO
TESTIFIED THAT, AND THIS IS YOUR
QUOTE, ISSUES OF CORRUPTION HAVE
BEEN PART OF HIGH-LEVEL DIALOGUE
BETWEEN U.S. LEADERS AND
UKRAINIAN LEADERS REGARDLESS OF
WHO IS THE U.S. LEADER AND WHO
IS THE UKRAINIAN LEADER, AND
THAT IS A NORMAL ISSUE OF
DIPLOMATIC DISCUSSION AT THE
HIGHEST LEVEL, END QUOTE, IS
THAT CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> I WILL YIELD 30 SECONDS. I
WILL CREED BACK AFTER THAT.
THANK YOU. -- YIELD BACK AFTER
THAT. THANK YOU.
>> BOTH O. YOU HAVE TESTIFIED
THAT YOU ARE -- BOTH OF YOU HAVE
TESTIFIED THAT YOU ARE NOT
DIRECT WITNESS WHOSE HAVE SPOKEN
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP, HOWEVER,
YOU ARE WITNESSES TO A SHAKE
DOWN SCHEME THAT OVERS
PARTICIPATED IN WHO SPOKE WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP. HOWEVER,
AMBASSADOR BOLTON AND MICK
MULVANEY BOTH SPOKE DIRECTLY TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND UNLIKE YOU,
THEY HAVE REFUSED TO HONOR OUR
REQUEST TO BE A PART OF THESE
PROCEEDINGS. NONETHELESS, WE DO
KNOW HOW ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF
MICK MULVANEY FEELS ABOUT AID
BECAUSE ON OCTOBER 1 AT A PRESS
CONFERENCE HE DISCUSSED THE HOD
ON SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR
UKRAINE. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, I'D
LIKE YOU TO LISTEN TO WHAT HE
SAID.
I WILL READ IT FOR YOU. IT IS IN
RESPONSE TO A QUESTION. TO BE
CLEAR, WHAT YOU HAVE JUST
DESCRIBED AS A QUID PRO QUO.
MONEY WILL NOT FLOW INTO THE
DEMOCRATIC SERBER, AND IN
RESPONSE THAT THAT QUESTION, MR.
MULL VAUGHNY SAID LTAYLOR, WE DO
THAT ALL THE TIME WITH FOREIGN
POLICY. MY QUESTION, AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR, THE PRESIDENT
CONDITIONING SECURITY ASIS TABS
ON AN INVESTIGATION INTO HIS
POLITICAL OPPONENT PRIOR TO THIS
ADMINISTRATION, IS THAT
SOMETHING WE WOULD DO ALL THE
TIME?
>> NO, SIR.
>> WHY NOT?
>> WE CONDITION ASSISTANCE
OBJECT ISSUES THAT WILL IMPROVE
OUR FOREIGN POLICY, SERVE OUR
FOREIGN POLICY, USE -- INSURE
THAT TAXPAYERS' MONEY IS WELL
SPENT. THOSE ARE -- AND THOSE
CONDITIONS ARE EITHER COMING
FROM THE CONGRESS OR FROM POLICY
DECISIONS COMING FROM AUTHORITY
CONGRESS HAS GIVEN US TO MAKE
SURE THAT THE TAXPAYERS' MONEY
IS WELL SPENT OR THAT THE
RECEIVING COUNTRY TAKES THE
ACTIONS IN OUR NATIONAL
INTEREST.
>> YOU DESCRIBED IN YOUR TEXT
MESSAGE EXCHANGES THAT ENGAGING
IN A SCHEME LIKE THIS IS, QUOTE,
CRAZY. CAN WE ALSO AGREE THAT IT
IS JUST WRONG?
>> YES.
>> WHY IS IT WRONG?
>> AGAIN, OUR OWNING -- HODDING
UP OF SECURITY ASSISTANCE THAT
WOULD GO TO A COUNTRY THAT IS
FIGHTING AGGRESSION FROM RUSSIA
FOR NO GOOD POLICY REASON, NO
GOOD SUBSTANTIVE REASON, NO GOOD
NATIONAL SECURITY REASON, IS
WRONG.
>> MR. MULVANEY, IN THE SAME
NEWS CONFERENCE SAID, QUOTE, IF
YOU READ THE NEWS REPORTS AND
YOU BELIEVE THEM, WHAT MCKINLEY
SAID YESTERDAY, WELL, MCKINLEY
SAID YESTERDAY THAT HE WAS
REALLY UPSET WITH THE POLITICAL
INFLUENCE AND FOREIGN POLICY
THAT IS ONE OF THE REASONS HE
WAS SO UPSET ABOUT THIS. AND I
HAVE NEWS FOR EVERYBODY, GET
OVER IT! THERE'S GOING TO BE
POLITICAL INFLUENCE IN FOREIGN
POLICY. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR,
SHOULD WE GET OVER IT?
>> IF WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
POLITICAL INFLUENCE MEANING
ATTEMPTS TO GET INFORMATION THAT
IS SOLELY USEFUL FOR POLITICAL
CAMPAIGNS, THAT IS WHAT HE IS
TALKING ABOUT, WE SHOULD NOT GET
USED TO THAT.
>> FINALLY MANY MULVANEY SAID I
WAS INVOLVED WITH THE PROCESS BY
WHICH 2 MONEY WAS HELD UP
TEMPORARILY, OKAY. THREE ISSUES
FOR THAT. THE CORRUPTION OF THE
COUNTRY, WHETHER OR NOT THE
COUNTRIES PARTICIPATING IN THE
SUPPORT OF UKRAINE AND WHETHER
OR NOT THEY WERE COOPERATING IN
AN ONGOING INVESTIGATION WITH
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE THAT
IS COMPLETELY LEGITIMATE. MR.
KENT, WERE YOU AWARE OF ANY
FORMAL DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
REQUESTS MADE TO THE UKRAINIANS?
>> I AM NOT ACARE THAT THERE WAS
ANY FORMAL DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
REQUEST IN THAT MATTER,.
>>
>> WAS MR. MULVANEY'S STATEMENT
FALSE?
>> I THINK YOU'D REFER THAT YES
TO THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
SINCE I DON'T HAVE FULL
KNOWLEDGE OF WHATEVER THEY MAY
HAVE BEEN WORKING ON.
>> JUST ABOUT AN HOUR BEFORE THE
TWO OF YOU SAT DOWN TO TESTIFY
TODAY, THE PRESIDENT TWEETED
MULTIPLE TIMES ABOUT THIS
HEARING AND HE PUT IN ALL CAPS
NEVER FRUMPERS. MR. KENT, ARE
YOU A NEVER TRUMPER?
>> I AM A CAREER NONPROFESSIONAL
WHO SERVES WHATEVER PRESIDENT IS
DULY ELECTED AND CARRIES OUT THE
FOREIGN POLICIES OF THAT
PRESIDENT AND THE UNITED STATES
AND I HAVE DONE THAT FOR 27
YEARS FOR THREE REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTS AND TWO DEMOCRAT
PRESIDENTS.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, ARE YOU A
NEVER TRUMPER?
>> NO, SIR.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, FINALLY
YOU SAID IN YOUR STATEMENT ON
PAGE 19, MR. CHAIRMAN, THERE ARE
TWO UKRAINIAN STORIES TODAY, THE
FIRST IS THE ONE WE ARE
DISCUSSING THIS MORNING AND THAT
YOU HAVE BEEN HEARING FOR THE
PAST TWO WEEKS. IT IS A
RANKERROUS STORY ABOUT
WHISTLEBLOWERS LGIULIANI, SIDE
CHANNELS, QUID PRO QUOS,
CORRUPTION AND INTERFERENCE IN
ELECTIONS. IN THIS STORY UKRAINE
IS MERELY AN OBJECT. IS IT ALSO
TRUE THAT IN THIS STORY IT IS
ABOUT THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES?
>> I AM HERE TO TELL YOU WHAT I
KNOW. AND I AM HERE TO TELL YOU
WHAT I HEARD. AND WHAT I SAID.
AND IN THAT REGARD, I CAN'T
ANSWER THAT QUESTION.
>> AND WHAT YOU HAVE TESTIFIED
TODAY ALSO INVOLVES THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES WAS ON THE TELEPHONE CALL
ON THE 25th OF JULY, YES, SIR.
>> THANK YOU. I YIELD BACK.
>> SIR?
>> THANK YOU, CHAIRMAN.
GENTLEMEN, I APPRECIATE YOUR
DECADE OF SERVICE AS FABLED
FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICER AND
AMBASSADOR SAYS BECAUSE WE HAVE
WING TIPS ON THE GROUND MEANING
DIPLOMATS THAT PREVENTS US FROM
HAVING BOOTS ON THE GROUND,
MILITARY, YOU'RE AN IMPORTANT
ROLE IN OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
AND THANK YOU AND YOUR
COLLEAGUES. MR. TAYLOR, MY FIRST
QUESTIONS ARE TO YOU AND THESE
ARE QUESTIONS THAT ON YEARS
PRIOR TO YOUR TIME IN THE
UKRAINE, BUT I AM PRETTY SURE
YOU CAN ANSWER THEM. DID THE
UKRAINIANS GET MILITARY -- GET
AID IN F.Y.-17?
>> DID THEY GET ANY AID IN
F.Y.-17.
>> YES, SIR.
>> AND THEY GOT SECURITY
ASSISTANCE AS WELL.
>> THEY DID.
>> IF I SAID THAT NUMBER WAS IN
MILITARY ASSISTANCE AROUND $270
MILLION, WOULD THAT PROBABLY BE
ACCURATE?
>> CLOSE.
>> IS THAT ABOUT RIGHT?
>> YES.
>> DID THEY
GET AID IN F.Y.-1?
>> YES, SIR.
>> AND INCLUDING SECURITY
ASSISTANCE?
>> INCLUDING SECURITY
ASSISTANCE.
>> WE HAVE ALREADY TALKED ABOUT
THE JAVELINS, THE ANTI-TANK
MISSILES THAT THEY WERE NOT ABLE
TO PURCHASE IN PREVIOUS
ADMINISTRATIONS. HAVE THEY
GOTTEN SECURITY ASSISTANCE IN
F.Y.-19?
>> YES, SIR.
>> PRIOR TO THE $400 MILLION OR
SO THAT WE HAVE BEEN DISCUSSING
A LOT HERE TODAY?
>> THEY GOT SOME PREVIOUS --
SOME
PROBABLY F.Y.-118 ASSISTANCE.
>> IT TAKES A WHILE. THERE WERE
TWO SHIPS THAT JUST ARRIVED IN
THE PORT OF ODESSA, AND THAT WAS
WITH THE MONEY. SO THERE IS A
LAG OF A YEAR.
>> MIR POINT IS THAT WE HAVE
BEEN SUPPORTING THE UKRAINIANS
UNDER THIS ADMINISTRATION TO --
IN ORDER TO HELP THEM KICK OUT
THE RUSSIANS WHO INVADED THEIR
COUNTRY?
>> YES, SIR.
>> 100%.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, YOU
EARLIER TESTIFIED THAT U
KLEINIAN OFFICIALS DID NOT
BECOME AWARE OF POTENTIAL U.S.
ASSISTANCE BEING WITHHELD UNTIL
AUGUST 29th, IS THAT ACCURATE?
>> THAT IS MY UNDERSTANDING.
>> WOULD YOU FIND IT SURPRISING
IF A UKRAINIAN OFFICIAL KNEW
ABOUT THIS SOONER AND DID
NOT CONTACT YOU?
>> I CAN ANSWER THAT IT WAS ONLY
AFTER AUGUST 29th WHEN THE
POLITICAL ARGUE THAT I GOT CAYS
FROM SEVERAL OF THE UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS.
>> MR. KENT, HAD YOU HAD ANY
UKRAINIAN OFFICIAL CONTACTING
YOU CONCERNED ABOUT -- WHEN WAS
THE FIRST TIME A UKRAINIAN
OFFICIAL CONTACTED YOU CONCERNED
ABOUT POTENTIAL WITHHODDING OF
U.S. AID?
>> IT WAS AFTER THE ARTICLE IN
POLITICAL POLITICO CAME OUT IN
THAT FIRST WEEK OF SEPTEMBER.
>> SO AFTER THAT
AUGUST 29th CONVERSATION. THERE
IS A LOT OF TALK ABOUT RUDY
GIULIANI AND WHO HE WAS AND
WASN'T MEETING. DO WE KNOW OR
HAVE AN IDEA OF THE UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS HE WAS MEETING WITH
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS?
>> I DON'T, SIR.
>> HAVE YOU HAD ANY UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS CALL YOU AFTER A
MEETING WITH RUDY GIULIANI
CONCERNED ABOUT THE NATURE OF OR
THE CONTEXT
OF THAT CONVERSATION? YES, THERE
WAS CONCERN EXPRESSED ABOUT HIS
INTERACTIONS WITH PROSECUTE GUY
GHOUL.
>> AND I BELIEVE THAT MEETING
WAS SOMEWHERE IN LATE AUGUST, IS
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> THERE WERE MEETING AND THERE
WERE I THINK ALSO PHONE CALLS.
>> AND YOU ALL HAVE TALKED MANY
TIMES THAT YOU ALL ARE STILL
CONCERNED ABOUT CORRUPTION IN
THE UKRAINE, IS THAT CORRECT?
>> YES, SIR.
>> HAVE WE SEEN WHATEVER THIS
ANTI-CORRUPTION STATEMENT WE
WANTED THE
UKRAINIANS TO MAKE?
>> ARE YOU REFERRING TO THE
STATEMENT THAT WAS BEING
NEGOTIATED BETWEEN KURT L
VOLKER, GORDON SONDLAND AND
ANDREIER MACK?
>> YES.
>> THAT WAS NOT AN
ANTI-CORRUPTION STATEMENT.
>> WHAT WAS THE STATEMENT?
>> I THINK IF YOU GO BACK TO THE
BACK AND FORTH THAT WERE SHARED
BY KURT VOLKER, THEY SHARED A
DRAFT WITH RUDY GIULIANI AND
RUDY GUY GHOUL SAID IT WOULD NOT
BE ACCEPTABLE IF IT DIDN'T
MENTION BIDEN, BURISMA, 2016.
>> BUT THAT STATEMENT WAS NEVER
AGREED TO, NEVER ISSUED BY THE
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS, IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> NO STATEMENT OF THAT SORT WAS
ISSUED, CORRECT.
>> AND HAVE YOU -- U.S.
BUSINESSES EVER CONTACTED YOU
ALL CONCERNED ABOUT CORRUPTION
WITHIN UKRAINE?
>> YES, SIR.
>> AS OF THIS YEAR EVEN?
>> BECAUSE THE CONCERN IS NOT
JUST HOW UKRAINIAN BUSINESSES
RUN
BY THEN ARE BEING OPERATED IT IS
ALSO HOW THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT IS DEALING WITH
AMERICAN BUSINESSES TRYING TO
OPERATE IN UKRAINE, IS THAT
ACCURATE?
>> THEY'RE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
JUDICIAL SYSTEM IN PARTICULAR,
YES, SIR.
>> I FEEDBACK TO THE TIME I DO
NOT HAVE, MR. CHAIR.
>> THANK YOU. MR. CASTRO.
>> THANK YOU, GENTLEMEN, OH FOR
YOUR TESTIMONY TODAY AND FOR
YOUR SERVICE TO OUR COUNTRY.
LISTENING TO ALL OF THE
EVIDENCE, EVERYTHING I HAVE
HEARD AND READ IN THIS
INVESTIGATION, IT SEEP TOES ME
THAT THE -- SEEPS TO ME THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
EITHER COMMITTED EXTORTION OR
BRIBERY OF A FOREIGN OFFICIAL OR
ATTEMPTED EXTORTION AND BRIBERY
OF A FOREIGN OFFICIAL. WHEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP GOT MR.
ZELENSKYY OBJECT THE PHONE ON
JULY 25th, HE WAS TALKING TO A
DESPERATE MAN, WASN'T HE?
PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY WAS
DESPERATE TO PROTECT HIS COUNTRY
AND MAKE SURE HE HAD FOREIGN
ASSISTANCE FROM THE UNITED
STATES, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> MR. ZELENSKYY IS VERY
INTERESTED IN U.S. SUPPORT, BOTH
ASSISTANCE AND POLITICAL
SUPPORT, YES, SIR.
>> WHAT WOULD HAVE HAPPENED IF
THE AID HAD GOATEN CUT OFF,
AMBASSADOR? WHAT WOULD HAVE
HAPPENED TO MR. ZELENSKYY'S
CAREER AND WHAT WOULD HAVE
HAPPENED TO UKRAINE?
>> THE ASSISTANCE HAD BEEN CUT
OFF, HE WOULD HAVE BEEN MUCH
WEAKER IN HIS NEGOTIATIONS WITH
THE RUSSIANS. HE WOULD HAVE BEEN
MUCH WEAKER ON THE BATTLEFIELD.
>> THE RUSSIANS MAY HAVE TAKEN
IT AS AN INVITATION TO ACTUALLY
TAKE MILITARY ACTION AGAINST
UKRAINE, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THE RUSSIANS ALWAYS LOOK FOR
VULNERABILITIES, AND THEY KNOW
THAT THE UNITED STATES HAS
SUPPORTED UKRAINE, AND IF THEY
-- IF THE RUSSIANS DETERMINED OR
SUSPECT THAT THAT SUPPORT IS
LESSENED OR NOT THERE, THEY WILL
LIKELY TAKE ADVANTAGE.
>> THEY COULD HAVE POUNCED.
>> THEY COULD HAVE TAKEN
ADVANTAGE.
>> SO HE HAD A DESPERATE MAN ON
THE PHONE AND HE ASKED A
DESPERATE MAN FOR A FAVOR. BASED
ON YOUR TESTIMONY IT SOUNDS LIKE
BEGRUDGINGLY, PRESIDENT
ZELENSKYY ACTUALLY AGREED TO DO
THAT FAVOR AND INVESTIGATE THE
BIDENS AND BURISMA, IS THAT
RIGHT?
>> PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY DOES SAY
IN THE TRANSCRIPT THAT HE WILL
PURSUE THE INVESTIGATION.
>> SO WE KNOW THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP ASKED FOR A FAVOR TO HELP
HIS POLITICAL CAREER AND IT
APPEARS AS THOUGH THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UKRAINE AGREED TO THAT
FAVOR. DO WE KNOW WHY IT DIDN'T
ACTUALLY HAPPEN? DO WE KNOW WHY
THERE WAS NO ANNOUNCEMENT IN
FRONT OF CNN OR TO CNN
ABOUT AN INVESTIGATION?
>> AS WE HAVE DETERMINED, AS WE
HAVE DISCUSSED HERE, ON
SEPTEMBER 11, JUST BEFORE ANY
CNN DISCUSSION OR INTERVIEW, THE
HOLD WAS RELEASED. THE HOLD ON
THE SECURITY ASSISTANCE WAS
RELEASED.
>> BUT WE DON'T -- SO THE HOLD
IS RELEASED. IS IT POSSIBLE THAT
THE WHITE HOUSE RELEASED THAT
HOLD BECAUSE THEY KNEW THAT A
WHISTLE BLOWER HAD BASICALLY
TURNED THIS IN?
>> I DON'T KNOW, SIR.
>> DO YOU THINK THAT IS
POSSIBLE?
>> I AM NOT IN A POSITION TO
JUDGE.
>> SO WE HAVE A PRESIDENT WHO
THE OTHER SIDE HAS CLAIMED OR
HAS DEFENDED THE PRESIDENT
SAYING THAT THE AID WENT
THROUGH, THAT THERE WAS NEVER
ANY INVESTIGATION. BUT THE
PRESIDENT ATTEMPTED TO GET THOSE
THINGS DONE AND IT LOOKS LIKE
THERE WAS AN INITIAL AGREEMENT
BY THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE TO
ACTUALLY DO
THOSE THINGS. SO, AMBASSADORS,
IS ATTEMPTED MURDER A CRIME?
>> IS ATTEMPTED MURDER A CRIME?
>> ATTEMPTED MURDER IS A CRIME.
>> IS ATTEMPTED ROBBERY A CRIME?
>> NEITHER OF US IS A LAWYER,
BUT I --
>> I THINK ANYONE IN THIS ROOM
COULD ANSWER THAT QUESTION.
>> THAT IS RIGHT. YES, IT IS.
>> IS ATTEMPTED EXTORTION AND
BRIBERY A CRIME?
>> I DON'T KNOW, SIR.
IN THE MINUTE THAT I HAVE LEFT,
I WANT YOU TO SPEAK TO THE
NATION ABOUT WHAT IS AT STAKE,
AMBASSADOR KENT. YOU SAID IN
YOUR OPENING STATEMENT YOU
WARNED ABOUT SELECTIVE
PROSECUTIONS AND A PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES GOING AFTER
SPECIFIC AMERICANS ABROAD.
IF THIS CONGRESS CLEARS
PRESIDENT TRUMP, DOES IT MEAN
THAT HE CAN GO ASK ANOTHER
FOREIGN COUNTRY TO INVESTIGATE
ANOTHER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE,
A MEMBER OF CONGRESS, A
GOVERNOR, A SENATOR, OR ANY
PRIVATE AMERICAN CITIZEN DOING
BUSINESS OVERSEAS? IF THERE IS
NO CONSEQUENCE FOR A PRESIDENT
WHO DOES THAT, THEN IT MEANS
THERE IS A GREEN LIGHT, DOESN'T
IT, FOR ANY PRESIDENT TO ASK ANY
COUNTRY TO GO PROSECUTOR OR
INVESTIGATE AN AMERICAN CITIZEN
FOR A POLITICAL AND PERSONAL
GAIN OF THAT PRESIDENT, DOESN'T
IT?
>> THANK YOU FOR THE QUESTION.
AND FIRST OF ALL, I AM NOT AN
AMBASSADOR.
>> I'M SORRY. DEPUTY SECRETARY.
>> I WILL REPEAT, ON PRINCIPAL,
REGARDLESS OF THE COUNTRY,
WHETHER IT THE IS THE UKRAINE
DU.S. OR ANY COUNTRY, THE FACTS
OF LAW, CRIMINAL NEXT US SHOULD
DRIVE INVESTIGATIONS BY LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS AND IS NOT
THE ROLE OF POLITICIANS TO BE
INVOLVED IN DIRECTING THE
JUDICIAL SYSTEMS OF THEIR OWN
COUNTRY OR OTHER COUNTRIES.
>>
I
YIELD BACK
.
>> YOUR RESPONSER WAS, QUOTE,
ALL AMBASSADORS SERVE AT THE
PLEASURE OF THE PRESIDENT, AND
THAT IS WITHOUT QUESTION.
EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS THAT, END
QUOTE. DO YOU
REMEMBER SAYING THAT?
>> I DO AND IT IS TRY.
>> THE PRESIDENT VERY CLEARLY
HAS THAT CONSTITUTIONAL
AUTHORITY, DOES HE NOT?
>> HE DOES.
>> MOST EVERYBODY APPARENTLY
UNDERSTANDS THAT, BUT IT DOESN'T
INCLUDE THE HOUSE DEMOCRATS. IN
THE CONTEXT OF THIS IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY, SPECIFICALLY ADDRESSING
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH, WHO I
KNOW IS A FRIEND OF YOURS, IN
OOLOGISTING ABUSE OF POWER IN A
NATIONALLY TELEVISED INTERVIEW,
A MEMBER OF THIS COMMITTEE SAID,
QUOTE, IT IS AN ABUSE OF POW
TORE REMOVE AN AMBASSADOR
BECAUSE OF POLITICAL REASONS
BECAUSE YOU DON'T LIKE WHAT
THEY'RE DOING, PERIOD, END QUOTE
THAT IS NOT TRUE, IS IT?
>> AGAIN, I GO BACK TO WHOA I
SAID. THE PRESIDENT HAS THE
RIGHT TO HAVE AMBASSADORS SERVE
AT HIS PLEASURE.
>> SO YOU AGREE WITH ME THAT WE
SHOULDN'T IMPEACH A PRESIDENT
FOR EXERCISING HIS
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY.
>> I AM HERE AS A FACT WITNESS
TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTIONS. YOUR
JOB IS TO CONSIDER THE EVIDENCE
BEFORE YOU.
>> SO WHEN DID AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH GET RECALLED FROM
UKRAINE?
>> I BELIEVE A MESSAGE WAS SENT
ON OR ABOUT APRIL 24th.
>> OKAY. AND CERTAINLY WELL
BEFORE THE JULY 25th CALL THAT
IS IN QUESTION HERE, CORRECT?
>> WITHOUT A DOUBT.
>> AND SHE HAD NO REMAINING
RESPONSIBILITIES WITH RESPECT TO
UKRAINE POLICY FOR THAT THREE OR
FOUR MONTHS IN BETWEEN, I TAKE
IT?
>> SHE IS NOW -- SHE WAS
TRANSFERRED TO A TEACHING SLOT
AT GEORGETOWN WHERE HER
RESPONSIBILITIES, AMONG OTHERS,
WERE TO TEACH A CLASS ON
UKRAINE.
>> OKAY.
>> SO IF PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD THE
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY TO
REMOVE HER AS HE DID MONTHS
BEFORE THE CALL, AND SHE WASN'T
IN THE UKRAINE OR HAVE ANY
RESPONSIBILITIES ON JULY 25th,
DO YOU HAVE AN EXPLANATION FOR
WHY DEMOCRATS ARE CALLING HER AS
A WITNESS ON FRIDAY?
>> I AM HERE AS A FACT WITNESS
UNDER SUBPOENA AND THAT IS A
QUESTION YOU COULD PERHAPS
DIRECT TOWARDS YOUR DEMOCRATIC
COLLEAGUES.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, WE HAVE
ESTABLISHED THAT ON JULY 25th
BOTH PARTICIPANTS IN THE CALL,
BOTH PRESIDENTS EXPRESSLY HAVE
STATED THERE IS NO PRESSURE, NO
DEMAND, NO CONDITIONS, NO
BLACKMAIL, NO CORRUPTION, AND I
ASK YOU AGAIN SPECIFICALLY ABOUT
THE QUID PRO QUO BEING POSSIBLE,
AND I THINK WE HAVE AGREED THAT
IT WASN'T POSSIBLE, A QUID PRO
QUO INVOLVING MILITARY AID ON
JULY TAKEth GIVEN PRESIDENT
ZELENSKYY'S LACK OF KNOWLEDGE.
>> PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY DID NOT
HAVE ANY IDEAS THAT THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE WAS ON HOLD.
>> SO DO YOU HAVE AN EXPLANATION
WITHIN DAYS OF THAT PHONE CALL
WHEN NO QUID PRO QUO WAS EVEN
POSSIBLE A PERSON WHO LATER
BECAME A WHISTLEBLOWER WALKED
INTO CHAIRMAN SCHIFF'S OFFICE TO
DISCUSS WHAT CHAIRMAN SCHIFF'S
SPOKESPERSON PATRICK BOLEN SAID
WERE THE, QUOTE, OUTLINES OF THE
WHISTLEBLOWER'S ACCUSATIONS?
>> I'M SORRY QHA. IS THE
QUESTION, SIR?
>> THE QUESTION IS DO YOU KNOW
OR HAVE AN EXPLANATION AS TO WHY
THAT PERSON WOULD WALK IN A FEW
DAYS LATER INTO CHAIRMAN
SCHIFF'S OFFICE?
>> I DO NOT. I DO NOT.
>> EARLIER CHAIRMAN SCHIFF MADE
REFERENCE TO A COLLOQUY AND THAT
IS THE WAY FOR LEGISLATORS TO
CLARIFY AN IMPORTANT ISSUE TO
THE PUBLIC. AND SO WITHOUT IT
JEOPARDIZING THE WHISTLEBLOWER
IN ANY WAY, IN AN EFFORT TO FIND
OUT, CHAIRMAN, WHAT YOU KNEW AND
WHEN YOU KNEW IT ABOUT THE
WHISTLEBLOWER, I'D LIKE YOU TO
ENGAGE IN A COLLOQUY WITH ME.
>> MY COLLEAGUE WILL ADDRESS HIS
QUESTIONS TO THE WITNESSES.
>> I'LL TAKE THAT AS A NO YOU'RE
NOT INTERESTED IN A COLLOQUY?
>> IF YOU COULD - - YOU CAN TAKE
IT ANY WAY YOU'D LIKE IT, BUT
APPROPRIATELY YOUR QUESTIONS
SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO THE
WITHINS WITNESSES.
>> WELL, I GUESS MY QUESTION TO
THE WITNESS THEN, IS, WHEN ARE
THE HOUSE REPUBLICANS GOING TO
FIND OUT WHAT THE HOUSE
DEMOCRATS ALREADY KNOW? WHEN ARE
WE GOING TO FIND OUT THE DETAILS
OF THE CAN'T BETWEEN CHAIRMAN
SCHIFF AND THE WHISTLEBLOWER?
WHAT THEY -- WHEN THEY MET, THE
NUMBER OF TIMES THEY MET? THE
DISCUSSIONS THAT WERE HAD?
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, POINT OF ORDER.
>> POINT OF ORDER.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, THE GENTLEMAN
IS QUESTIONING THE CHAIR WHICH
IS NOT PERMITTED UNDER THE
RESOLUTION UNDER THE RULES OF
HEARING AND THE RULES IS MORE
OVER CONTRARY TO THE LAW AND
PRACTICE OF THIS COMMITTEE, AND
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO QUOTE MR.
CHAIRMAN --
>> I AM NOT TRYING TO FIND OUT
THE IDENTITY. I WANT TO FIND OUT
THE DATE THAT THIS HAPPENED.
>> AND IF BOTH COULD SUSPEND.
YOU RESUME QUESTIONING OF THE
WITNESS SO I WOULD RECOMMEND
THAT WE MOVE ON.
>> A PRETTY SIMPLE QUESTION. ARE
WE EVER GOING TO FIND OUT THE
DETAILS --
>> I GUESS --
>> MY POINT OF ORDER.
>> I GUESS HE HAS NOT RESIEWSMED
HIS QUESTIONING OF THE ORDER.
YOUR TIME IS DWINDLING. I
SUGGEST YOU USE IT.
>>
I'LL YIELD BACK.
>> THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN.
>> MR. KENT, SOME PEOPLE HAVE
SUGGESTED THAT THE REAL REASON
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S PRESSURE
CAMPAIGN ON THE UKRAINE WAS TO
ROOT OUT CORRUPTION IN UKRAINE.
I HAVE GONE BACK AND READ THE
MEMORANDUM OF CALLS TWO OR THREE
TIMES ACTUALLY, AND I DON'T
RECALL A SINGLE INNINGS STANCE
WHERE THE PRESIDENT EVER USED
THE WORD CORRUPTION, NOR THE
WORD CORRUPT. I KNOW IN ANSWER
TO THE CHAIRMAN'S OPENING
QUESTIONS YOU'D INDICATED YOU
HAD GONE BACK AND READ IT ABOUT
A MONTH AGO. DO YOU RECALL THE
PRESIDENT IN THAT JULY 25th
PHONE CALL WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKYY EVER UTTERING THE WORD
CORRUPTION OR CORRUPTION?
>> I DON'T RECALL, BUT IT WOULD
BE A MATTER OF RECORD THAT IT
HAS BEEN RELEASED.
>> BUT HE DID MANAGE TO FIND
TIME TO MENTION HIS POTENTIAL
POLITICAL LIVE RAHAL IN 2020.
YOU ALSO ANSWERED IN RESPONSE TO
THE QUESTION THAT YOU HAVE BEEN
WORKING ON THE ISSUE OF
CORRUPTION LITERALLY FOR
DECADES. I THANK YOU FOR THAT ON
BEHALF OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
AND INDEED, ON OCTOBER 15th, YOU
TESTIFIED ABOUT LONG-STANDING
U.S. POLICY MEANT TO COMBAT
CORRUPTION IN THE UKRAINE.
CHAMPIONED BY PEOPLE SUCH AS THE
FORKER AMBASSADOR MARIA
YOVANOVITCH. BUT, MR. KENT, IS
IT NOT TRUE THAT RATHER THAN
FIGHTING CORRUPTION IN GENERAL
IN UKRAINE THAT WHAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP ACTUALLY DID WAS
UNCEREMONIOUSLY RECALL AND
REMOVE AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH
FROM HER POST IN UKRAINE?
>> I WOULD SAY, FIRST OF AWE, AS
I REPEATED BEFORE, THE PRESIDENT
HAS THE RIGHT TO RECALL
AMBASSADORS. IT REMAIN AS MATTER
OF POLICY OF THE UNITED STATES
TOWARDS U CREPE TO HELP THEM
OVERCOME A LEGACY OF CORRUPTION
IN CREATING NEW INSTITUTIONING
AND MUCH OF WHAT WE HAVE BEEN
DISCUSSING TODAY WHICH INVOLVED
AN IRREGULAR CHANNEL WAS REQUEST
THAT WENT AGAINST U.S. POLICY
THAT WOULD HAVE UNDERMINED THE
RULE OF LAW AND OUR LONG
STANDING POLICY GOALS IN UKRAINE
AS IN OTHER COUNTRIES IN THE
POSTSOVIET SPACE.
>> THOSE POLICIES WERE, INDEED,
CHAMPIONED BY AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH.
PROSECUTORS LIKE THE KGB WERE
INSTRUMENTS OF OPPRESSION.
>> I SAID THAT AND I BELIEVE
IT'S TRUE.
>> SO FINALLY, MR. KENT, FOR AS
LONG AS I CAN REMEMBER, U.S.
FOREIGN POLICY HAS BEEN
PREDICATED ON A DECORATED
PRINCIPAL INTEREST. FREEDOM OF
SPEECH, PRESS, ASSEMBLY OF
RELIGION, FREE AND OPEN
ELECTIONS, AND THE RULE OF LAW.
MR. KENT, WHEN AMERICAN LEADERS
ASK FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS TO
INVESTIGATE THEIR
POTENTIALRIVALS, DOESN'T THAT
MAKE IT HARDER FOR US TO
ADVOCATE ON BEHALF OF THOSE
DEMOCRATIC VALUES?
>> I BELIEVE IT MAKES IT MORE
DIFFICULT FOR OUR DIPLOMATIC
REPRESENTATIVES OVERSEAS TO
CARRY OUT THOSE POLICY GOALS,
YES.
>> HOW IS THAT, SIR?
>> THERE
IS AN ISSUE  OF CREDIBILITIES.
THEY HEAR SOMEONE SAYING
SOMETHING ELSE.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR WOULD YOU
AGREE WITH THAT?
>> I WOULD. OUR CREDIBILITY IS
BASED ON A RESPECT FOR THE
UNITED STATES. AND IF WE DAMAGE
THAT RESPECT, THEN IT HURTS OUR
CREDIBILITY AND MAKES IT MORE
DIFFICULT FOR US TO DO OUR JOBS.
>> ANYONE LOOKING AT THE FACTS
CAN SEE WHAT HAPPENED WAS AN
ABUSE OF POWER. ANYONE LOOKING
AT THE FACTS CAN SEE THAT WHAT
HAPPENED WAS UNETHICAL. ANYONE
LOOKING AT THE FACTS CAN SEE,
ANYONE LOOKING AT THE FACTS CAN
SEE THAT WHAT WENT ON WAS JUST
PLAIN WRONG. I YIELD
BACK, MR. CHAIRMAN.
>> MR. JORDAN.
>> THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN. 55
DAYS THAT THERE WAS A DELAY ON
SENDING HARD EARNED TAX DOLLARS
OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE TO
UKRAINE. NOT TALKING ANY
COUNTRY. WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
UKRAINE. ONE OF THE THREE MOST
CORRUPT COUNTRIES ON THE PLANET
ARE WITNESSED ON FRIDAY. SHE
TESTIFIED IN HER DEPOSITION.
CORRUPTION IS NOT JUST PREVALENT
IN UKRAINE, IT'S THE SYSTEM. SO
OUR PRESIDENT SAID TIMEOUT.
TIMEOUT. LET'S CHECK OUT THIS
NEW GUY. LET'S SEE IF ZELENSKY
IS THE NEW DEAL. THIS NEW GUY
THAT GOT ELECTED IN APRIL, WHOSE
PARTY TOOK OVER IN JULY. LET'S
SEE IF HE IS LEGITIMATE. KEEP IN
MIND THIS HAS ALREADY BEEN
DISCUSSED. AND IN 2018 PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAS ALREADY DONE MORE FOR
UKRAINE THAN OBAMA DID. THAT IS
RIGHT. PRESIDENT TRUMP WHO
DOESN'T LIKE FOREIGN AID, WANTED
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES TO DO MORE,
KNEW HOW CORRUPT UKRAINE MORE
DID MORE BECAUSE HE GAVE
AFTERLANCE. OUR WITNESSES HAVE
SAID THIS. OTHERS HAVE SAID
THIS. OBAMA GAVE THEM BLANKETS,
TRUMP GAVE THEM MISSILES. BUT
WHEN IT CAME TIME TO CHECK OUT
THIS NEW GUY, MR. TRUMP SAID
LET'S SEE IF HE LEGIT. SO FOR 55
DAYS WE CHECKED HIM OUT.
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY HAD FIVE
INTERACTIONS WITH SENIOR
OFFICIALS IN THAT TIME FRAME.
ONE WAS THE PHONE CALL. THE JULY
25th PHONE CALL BETWEEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY. AND THERE WAS FOUR
OTHER FACE TO FACE MEETINGS WITH
U.S. OFFICIALS. NOT ONE OF THOSE
INTERACTIONS, NOT ONE, WAS
SECURITY ASSISTANCE DOLLARS
LINKED TO INVESTIGATING BAH
RAISE MA OR BIDEN. BUT GUESS
WHAT
HAPPENED IN THOSE 55 DAYS? U.S.
SENATORS, MASTER BOLTON, VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE ALL BECAME
CONVINCED THAT ZELENSKY WAS IN
FACT WORTH THE RISK. THAT HE WAS
THE REAL DEAL AND A REAL CHANGE.
AND THEY TOLD THE PRESIDENT, HE
IS A REFORMER, RELEASE THE
MONEY. AND THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID. NOW OVER
THE NEXT FEW WEEKS, WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE MORE WITNESSES LIKE WE
HAD TODAY THAT THE DEMOCRATS
WILL PARADE IN HERE AND THEY
WILL SAY THIS. SO AND SO SAID
SUCH AND SUCH TO SO AND SO AND
THEREFORE WE'VE GOT TO IMPEACH
THE PRESIDENT. ACTUALLY, WE CAN
GET MORE SPECIFIC. WE COVERED
THIS A LITTLE BIT AGO. THEY SAID
SOMETHING LIKE A PASTOR SONDLAND
SAID AMBASSADOR SONDLAND SAID IN
HIS DEPOSITION. THAT I TOLD MR.
MORRISON THAT I CONVEYED THIS
MESSAGE TO MR. YARMAC, AND A
MEETING WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY.
AND IF YOU CAN FOLLOW THAT, THAT
IS THE DEMOCRATS PLAN AND WHY
THEY WANT TO IMPEACH THE
PRESIDENT. THAT IS WHAT WE WILL
HEAR OVER THE NEXT COUPLE OF
WEEKS. BUT NO MATTER WHAT THEY
DO, FOUR FACTS WILL NOT CHANGE.
THE CALL SAYS NO LINKAGE BETWEEN
DOLLARS AND THE INVESTIGATION
INTO BAH RAISE
MA AND THE
BIDENS. UKRAINE CARIBBEANS
DIDN'T KNOW THE AID WAS WITHHELD
AT THE TIME OF THE
PHONE CALL AND MOST IMPORTANTLY
-- NOW THERE IS ONE WITNESS. ONE
WITNESS THEY WON'T BRING IN
FRONT OF US. WON'T BRING IN
FRONT OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
AND THAT IS THE GUY THAT STARTED
IT
ALL. THE  -- THE WHISTLEBLOWER.
ONLY CHAIRMAN SCHIFF KNOWS WHO
THE WHISTLEBLOWER IS. WE DON'T.
WE WILL NEVER GET THE CHANCE TO
SEE THE WHISTLEBLOWER RAISE HIS
RIGHT HAND, SWEAR TO TELL THE
TRUTH AND NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
WE WILL NEVER GET THAT CHANCE.
MORE IMPORTANTLY, THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE WON'T GET THAT CHANCE.
THIS ANONYMOUS SO-CALLED
WHISTLEBLOWER WITH NO FIRSTHAND
KNOWLEDGE WHO ADVISED THE
PRESIDENT AND WORKED WITH JOE
BIDEN WILL NEVER GET A CHANCE TO
QUESTION THAT INDIVIDUAL.
DEMOCRATS ARE TRYING TO IMPEACH
THE PRESIDENT BASED ON ALL THAT?
ALL THAT? 11.5 MONTHS BEFORE AN
ELECTION. WILL NOT GET TO CHECK
OUT HIS CREDIBILITY, HIS
MOTIVATIONS, HIS BIAS. THIS IS A
SAD DAY. THIS IS A SAD DAY FOR
THIS COUNTRY. YOU THINK ABOUT
WHAT THE DEMOCRATS HAVE PUT OUR
NATION THROUGH FOR THE LAST
THREE YEARS. STARTED JULY OF
2016 WHEN THEY SPIED ON TWO
AMERICAN CITIZENS ASSOCIATED
WITH THE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
AND ALL THAT UNFOLDED WITH THE
MUELLER INVESTIGATION AFTER THAT
AND WHEN THAT DIDN'T WORK, HERE
WE ARE. BASED ON THIS. BASED ON
THIS. THIS IS A -- THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE SEE THROUGH ALL OF THIS.
THEY UNDERSTAND THE TACTS
SPOTLIGHT THE PRESIDENT. THEY
UNDERSTAND
THIS PROCESS IS UNFIRE. --
UNFAIR. AND WITH THAT I YIELD
BACK.
>> MR. WELCH.
>> THANK YOU. I SAID TO MY
COLLEAGUE, I WOULD BE GLAD TO
HAVE THE PERSON WHO STARTED IT
ALL COME IN AND TESTIFY.
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS WELCOME TO
TAKE A SEAT RIGHT THERE.
YOU KNOW, THE QUESTION HERE IS
NOT A DISPUTE ABOUT THE ENORMOUS
POWER THAT A PRESIDENT HAS. THE
QUESTION IS WHETHER IN THIS
CASE, THERE WAS AN ABUSE OF THAT
POWER. THE PRESIDENT CAN FIRE AN
AMBASSADOR FOR ANY REASON
WHATSOEVER. THE PRESIDENT CAN
CHANGE HIS POLICY. AS HE DID
WHEN HE OPENED THE DOOR FOR
TURKEY TO GO IN AND INVADE
KURDISTAN. DESPITE OPPOSITION
FROM MANY OF HIS SENIOR
ADVISORS. THE PRESIDENT CAN
CHANGE HIS POSITION AND OUR
POSITION ON UKRAINE. BUT IS
THERE A LIMIT? THERE IS.
BECAUSE OUR CONSTITUTION SAYS NO
ONE IS ABOVE THE LAW. AND THAT
LIMIT IS THAT ONE CANNOT, EVEN
AS PRESIDENT, USE THE PUBLIC
TRUST OF HIGH OFFICE FOR
PERSONAL GAIN. THE LAW PROHIBITS
ANY ONE
OF US HERE ON THE DIAS IS
SEEKING FOREIGN ASSISTANCE. THE
QUESTION FOR US IS WHETHER THE
USE OF POWER BY THE PRESIDENT
WAS FOR THE BENEFIT OF ADVANCING
HIS POLITICAL INTEREST IN THE
2020 CAMPAIGN. AND BY THE WAY,
IF THE PRESIDENT WANTS TO ATTACK
JOE BIDEN AND HIS SON, HE IS
FREE TO DO IT. HE IS JUST NOT
FREE TO CHANGE OUR FOREIGN
POLICY UNLESS HEGETS HIS WAY TO
A SYSTEM IN THAT CAMPAIGN. THAT
IS A LINE HE CAN'T CROSS. NOW,
YOU ALL HAVE BEEN VERY CLEAR
ABOUT WHAT OUR CONTINUOUS
FOREIGN POLICY WAS. AND
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR JUST VERY
QUICKLY DESCRIBE WHY US
WITHHOLDING AID INTERFERED WITH
ACHIEVING OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
GOALS?
>> ONE OF OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
GOALS IS TO RESOLVE CONFLICTS IN
EUROPE. THERE IS ONE MAJOR
CONFLICT IN EUROPE, IT'S A
FIGHTING WAR. OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY GOALS IN SUPPORT OF
UKRAINE, IN SUPPORT OF A BROADER
STRATEGIC APPROACH TO EUROPE IS
TO FACILITATE THAT NEGOTIATION.
IS TO TRY TO SUPPORT UKRAINE
WHEN IT NEGOTIATES WITH THE
RUSSIANS.
>> AND I WANT TO GO BACK. IN THE
HISTORICAL CONTENT, MR. KENT,
YOU AND AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
PROVIDED, WE HAD 70 YEARS OF
PEACE AFTER THE WAR IN WHICH WE
LOST OVER 400,000 AMERICAN
LIVES. AND THAT TOOK CARE. AND
THAT WAS IN JEOPARDY, AS YOU
DESCRIBED IT AMBASSADOR TAYLOR.
AND THAT THREATENED EACH AND
EVERY ONE OF US UP HERE AND THE
CONSTITUENTS WE REPRESENT. IS
THAT A FAIR STATEMENT?
>> THAT IS A FAIR STATEMENT.
>> I WANT TO DO THREE DATES TOO.
I ONLY HAVE A LITTLE TIME. JULY
24, JULY 25, AND JULY 26. JULY
24th, DIRECTOR MUELLER TESTIFIED
ABOUT HIS INVESTIGATION AND HE
ESTABLISHED THE ON DOUBT THAT IT
WAS THE RUSSIANS THAT INTERFERED
IN OUR ELECTION. AND HE
EXPRESSED THE FEAR THAT WOULD BE
THE NEW NORMAL. ON JULY 25th
ACCORDING TO THE READ OUT OF THE
PRESIDENT'S CAMPAIGN, HE
ASKED THE UKRAINIANS TO
INVESTIGATEUKRAINIAN'S
INTERFERENCE IN OUR ELECTION
THAT HAD BEEN REPUDIATED. AND ON
JULY 26th, AS I UNDERSTAND IT,
THIS PERSON WHO REPORTED TO YOU
HEARD THE PRESIDENT SAYING HE
WANTED INVESTIGATIONS AGAIN IN
UKRAINE. SO THIS IS THE
QUESTION, THE NEW NORMAL THAT
DIRECTOR MUELLER FEARED, IS
THERE A NEW NORMAL THAT YOU FEAR
THAT A PRESIDENT, ANY PRESIDENT,
CAN USE CONGRESSIONALLY APPROVED
FOREIGN AID AS A LEVER TO GET
PERSONAL ADVANTAGE IN SOMETHING
THAT IS IN HIS INTEREST BUT NOT
THE PUBLIC INTEREST?
>> THAT SHOULD NOT BE THE CASE,
MR. WELCH.
>> I YIELD BACK.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, I ASK ANONYMOUS
CONSENT TO ENTER INTO THE RECORD
THE JULY 25th CALL BETWEEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND ZELENSKY.
YOU HAVE MISS CHARACTERIZED THE
CALL. IN THE FIRST OPEN HEARING
YOU HAD A PARODY.
>> THE GENTLEMAN WILL SUSPEND.
BY UNANIMOUS CONSENT WILL BE
HAPPY TO ENTER THE CALL RECORD
INTO THE RECORD. MR. MUELLER
RECOGNIZE FOR FIVE MINUTES.
>> THANK YOU, GENTLEMEN. THANK
YOU FOR BEING HERE TODAY.
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, WHAT YEAR DID
YOU GRADUATE FROM WEST POINT.
>> 1969.
>> AT HEIGHTH R OF THE VIETNAM
WAR.
>> THE HEIGHT WAS ABOUT THAT
TIME.
>> WHAT WAS YOUR CLASS RANK AT
WEST POINT?
>> I WAS NUMBER FIVE.
>> HOW MANY PEOPLE WERE IN YOUR
CLASS?
>> 800.
>> 800 CADETS, YOU WERE NUMBER
FIVE.
>> YES, SIR.
>> SO WHEN YOU WERE TOP 1% OF
YOUR CLASS AT WEST POINT, YOU
PROBABLY GET YOUR PICK OF
ASSIGNMENTS, BUT YOU PICKED THE
INFANTRY.
>> I DID. YES, SIR.
>> YOU ARE A RIFLE COMPANY
COMMANDER.
>> SIR?
>> WHERE DID YOU SERVE?
>> IN VIETNAM.
>> DID YOU SEE COMBAT IN
VIETNAM?
>> I DID.
>> DID YOU EARN ANY
ACCOMMODATIONS FOR THAT SERVICE?
>> I WAS AWARDED THE COMBAT
INFANTRY BADGE WHICH IS MY
HIGHEST I'M PROUDEST OF. THERE
WAS A BRONZE STAR, AN AIR MEDAL
V.
>> THAT IS FOR VALOR; ISN'T IT,
SIR?
>> IT IS.
>> JUSTICE TALK ABOUT
JULY 26th, LET'S TALK ABOUT JULY
16th, A LOT OF YEARS LATER. YOU
ARE ON THE BRIDGE AND YOU ARE
LOOKING OVER ON THE FRONT LINE
OF THE RUSSIAN SOLDIERS. IS THAT
WHAT YOU RECALLED?
>> YES, SIR.
>> AND YOU SAID THE COMMANDER
THERE, THE UKRAINIAN COMMANDER
THANKED YOU FOR THE AMERICAN
MILITARY ASSISTANCE THAT YOU
KNEW WAS BEING WITHHELD AT THAT
MOMENT.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> HOW DID THAT MAKE YOU FEEL,
SIR?
>> BADLY.
>> WHY?
>> BECAUSE IT WAS CLEAR THAT,
THAT COMMANDER COUNTED ON US. IT
WAS CLEAR THAT, THAT COMMANDER
HAD CONFIDENCE IN US. IT WAS
CLEAR THAT COMMANDER WAS
APPRECIATIVE OF THE CAPABILITIES
THAT HE WAS GIVEN BY THAT
ASSISTANCE, BUT ALSO THE
REASSURANCE THAT WE WERE
SUPPORTING HIM.
>> YOU DON'T STRIKE ME AS A
QUITTER, AMBASSADOR. BUT YOU
THREATENED TO RESIGN, OR
MENTIONED IT IN YOUR STATEMENT.
BEFORE I ASK YOU ABOUT THAT,
LET'S TALK ABOUT A COUPLE DAYS
LATER ON JULY -- EXCUSE ME, ONE
MONTH LATER ON AUGUST 28th. YOU
FIND YOURSELF IN UKRAINE WITH
MR. BOLTON. AND YOU CONVEY TO
HIM YOUR CONCERNS. YOU TESTIFIED
TO THIS PREVIOUSLY ABOUT THE
WITHHOLDING OF MILITARY
ASSISTANCE. WHAT DOES HE SAY TO
YOU?
>> HE SAYS HE SHARES MY CONCERN,
AND HE ADVISES ME TO EXPRESS
THAT IN A VERY SPECIAL WAY TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
>> NOW HE IS THE NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISOR, WORKS DIRECTLY
WITH THE PRESIDENT, BUT HE TELLS
YOU, YOU SHOULD BRING IT UP WITH
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
>> YES, SIR.
>> HAVE YOU EVER SENT A TABLE
CABLE LIKE THAT? HOW MANY TIMES
IN YOUR CAREER 40-50 YEARS HAVE
YOU SENT A CABLE DIRECTLY TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE.
>> ONCE.
>> THIS TIME?
>> YES, SIR.
>> IN 50 YEARS.
>> YES, SIR.
>> SO THE NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR THAT CAN TELL IT TO THE
PRESIDENT HIMSELF AND HE SHARES
YOUR CONCERN SAYS YOU, THE
AMBASSADOR, SERVING UKRAINE
SHOULD CABLE THE SECRETARY OF
STATE DIRECTLY AND YOU DO SO.
>> YES, SIR.
>> WHAT DID THE CABLE SAY, SIR?
>> IT'S A CLASSIFIED CABLE.
>> WITHOUT GOING INTO CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.
>> IT SAYS SECURITY ASSISTANCE,
IT'S WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
TODAY. SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO
UKRAINE IS VERY IMPORTANT.
UKRAINE, I ALSO MAKE THE POINT
WE TALKED ABOUT IT HERE TODAY,
UKRAINE IS IMPORTANT TO OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY AND BUT SHOULD
SUPPORT IT. NOT TO
PROVIDE THAT WOULD BE FOLLY.
>> DID YOU GET AN ANSWER TO YOUR
CABLE?
>> NOT DIRECTLY. NECESSARY.
>> DO YOU KNOW WHAT HAPPENED TO
IT?
>> SECRETARY KENT.
>> SECRETARY KENT, DO YOU KNOW
WHAT HAPPENED TO IT?
>> I WAS ON VACATION WHEN HIS
CABLE CAME IN, BUT MY
UNDERSTANDING IS, IT MADE IT TO
ITS RECIPIENT.
>> WE KNOW SECRETARY POMPEO WAS
ON THE CALL A MONTH EARLIER ON
JULY 25th. WHAT DID HE DO WITH
IT?
>> I HONESTLY CAN'T SAY FOR SURE
WHAT HAPPENED WITH THE CABLE
ONCE THE MESSAGE WAS BROUGHT IN
AT THE HIGHEST LEVEL.
>> ONE OTHER QUESTION,
GENTLEMEN. ON SEPTEMBER 1st, YOU
RECALL A MEETING BETWEEN THE
VICE PRESIDENT AND PRESIDENT OF
UKRAINE MR. ZELENSKY, RIGHT OFF
THE BAT THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE
RAISES SECURITY ASSISTANCE. AND
THE VICE PRESIDENT SAYS I WILL
TALK TO THE PRESIDENT TONIGHT
ABOUT THAT. I'LL MAKE A CALL.
YOU KNOW IF THE VICE PRESIDENT
MADE THAT CALL?
>> I DON'T KNOW, SIR.
>> YOU KNOW WHAT IF ANYTHING THE
VICE PRESIDENT HAD TO DO WITH
ANY OF THIS? WHAT MORE CAN YOU
TELL US ABOUT THE VICE
PRESIDENT'S ROLE IN THIS? DO YOU
KNOW IF HE EVER RAISED THIS
ISSUE WITH ANYONE IN THE
ADMINISTRATION? WHETHER HE
PUSHED FOR THE RELEASE OF THAT
SECURITY ASSISTANCE?
>> I CAN'T, SIR.
>> I BELIEVE TO THE BEST OF MY
UNDERSTANDING, VICE PRESIDENT
WAS AN ADVOCATE FOR THE RELEASE
OF THE ASSISTANCE.
>> THANK YOU. I YIELD BACK MR.
CHAIR.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, I HAVE AN
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST.
>> STATE YOUR REQUEST.
>> I ASK UNANIMOUS CONSENT TO
SUBMIT FOR THE RECORD THE
POLITICAL ARTICLE ON UKRAINE.
>> THAT WILL BE ENTERED INTO THE
RECORD. REPRESENTATIVE DELLINGS.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH, MR. CAME.
THANK YOU BOTH
FOR BEING WITH US TODAY. MR.
KENT, YOU SAID A PRESIDENT HAS
THE RIGHT TO REMOVE AN
AMBASSADOR BECAUSE THE
AMBASSADOR SERVES THE PRESIDENT.
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> DOES THAT MOVE USUALLY COME
WITH A SMEAR CAMPAIGN OF
THATAMBASSADOR BY THE PRESIDENT?
>> I THINK THE RIGHT OF THE
PRESIDENT TO MAKE A DECISION
ABOUT THE PRESIDENT'S PERSONAL
REPRESENTATIVE IS CONFIRMED BY
THE SENATE IS SEPARATE FROM
WHATEVER HAPPENS OUTSIDE OF THE
CONFINES OF U.S. GOVERNMENT
PROCESSES.
>> DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA WHY IT
WAS IMPORTANT TO DISCREDIT
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH WHAT SHE
WAS NOT WILLING TO
DO OR TO DO? THE COMMITTEES
INVESTIGATION HAS UNCOVERED A
WEB OF SHADOW DIPLOMACY. ENGAGED
AND EXECUTED BY SEVERAL STATE
DEPARTMENT, OFFICIALS, AND THE
PRESIDENT'S PERSONAL ATTORNEY
RUDY GULIANI, AND ULTIMATELY
DIRECTED BY PRESIDENT TRUMP. WE
HAVE HEARD SEVERAL WAYS OF
DESCRIBING THIS SHADY, SHADOW
OPERATION. ROGUE BACK CHANNEL.
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, YOU HAVE
DESCRIBED WHAT YOU ENCOUNTERED
AS THE TOP DIPLOMAT ON THE
GROUND AND UKRAINE AND I QUOTE,
HIGHLY IRREGULAR INNORMAL
CHANNEL OF U.S. POLICYMAKING.
YOU TESTIFIED
THAT THE CHANNEL INCLUDED
AMBASSADOR VOLKER, SECRETARY
PERRY, AND RUDY GULIANI. IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> YES, MA'AM.
>> BOTH OF YOU EXPLAIN YOU GREW
SERIOUSLY CONCERNED WHEN THE
INTEREST OF THIS IRREGULAR
CHANNEL DIVERGED FROM OFFICIAL
U.S. POLICY AND INTEREST. WAS
MR. GULIANI PROMOTING
U.S.-NATIONAL INTEREST OR POLICY
IN UKRAINE, AMBASSADOR?
>> I DON'T THINK SO, MA'AM.
>> MR. KENT?
>> NO, HE WAS NOT.
>> WHAT INTERESTS DO YOU BELIEVE
HE WAS PROMOTING, MR. KENT?
>> I BELIEVE HE WAS LOOKING TO
DIG UP POLITICAL DIRT AGAINST A
POTENTIAL RIVAL IN THE NEXT
ELECTION CYCLE.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR? WHAT
INTEREST DO YOU BELIEVE HE WAS
PROMOTING?
>> I AGREE WITH MR. KENT.
>> THE STATE DEPARTMENT'S ROLE
IS TO PROMOTE U.S. POLICIES
OVERSEAS, NOT
TO HELP THE CURRENT PRESIDENT
WIN REELECTION. IS THAT CORRECT?
>> ALL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES ARE
SUBJECT TO THE HATCH ACT. THEY
WILL BE PROMOTING POLICY AND NOT
INVOLVED IN PARTISAN POLITICS.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR?
>> I AGREE.
>> WHAT IS THE RISK OF A RUNNING
A SEPARATE CHANNEL OF DIPLOMACY.
THAT IS OUTSIDE OF FURTHER
CHANNELS.
>> IT'S POSSIBLE TO DO ONE, BUT
NOT THE OTHER. THAT IS, IF IT'S
COMPLETELY AGAINST U.S. POLICY
GOALS, THEN THAT IS A MISTAKE.
THEN IT'S NOT HELPFUL. YOU CAN
GET ADVICE AND EVEN HAVE
CONVERSATIONS OUTSIDE OF THE
NORMAL CHANNELS. BUT THEN THEY
NEED TO BE PART OF U.S. FOREIGN
POLICY. AND APPROACHING THOSE
GOALS.
>> MILLION KENT?
>> AGREE.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, YOU HAVE
DESCRIBED ONE INCIDENT SHORTLY
AFTER YOU ARRIVED IN UKRAINE IN
WHICH SONDLAND ASKED STATE
DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS NOT TO
LISTEN TO A JULY 28th CALL HE
HAD PLANNED TO HOLD WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY. DID YOU FIND
THAT UNUSUAL?
>> I DID.
>> WHAT WAS THE IMPACT OF
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND MAKING THAT
REQUEST? WHEN YOU FOUND IT
UNUSUAL. WHAT DO YOU BELIEVE THE
IMPACT WAS?
>> I'M NOT SURE THERE WAS AN
IMMEDIATE IMPACT.
>> WAS THERE A RECORDING OR TRAN
SCRIPTION?
>> THERE WAS NOT. THAT WAS THE
IMPACT.
>> DO YOU THINK THAT IS WHY THE
REQUEST WAS MADE SO THERE WOULD
NOT BE NORMAL STATE DEPARTMENT
EMPLOYEES FROM THE OPERATIONS
CENTER WOULD
HAVE BEEN THER TRANSCRIBING AND
TAKING NOTES?
>> THAT IS NOT UNUSUAL TO NOT
HAVE IT RECORDED.
>> SO YOU BELIEVE THE STATE
DEPARTMENT IS HOLDING YOUR NOTES
DESPITE A DUALLY OTHERWISEDDED
SUBPOENA. AND YOU KNOW YOUR
NOTES MAY BE THE ONLY
DOCUMENTARY RECORD OF WHAT
HAPPENED. YOU ARE AWARE OF THAT.
>> YES, MA'AM.
>> AND MR. KENT, YOU ARE AWARE
YOUR NOTES HAVE NOT BEEN TURNED
OVER TO CONGRESS.
>> I HAVE TURNED ALL RECORDS I
HAD IN MY POSSESSION TO THE
STATE DEPARTMENT BECAUSE
WHATEVER WE DO IS CONSIDERED A
FEDERAL RECORD, NOT A PERSONAL
RECORD.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH MR.
CHAIRMAN, I YIELD BACK.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN.
>> I HAVE A NEW YORK TIMES OP-ED
STATING WHY PRESIDENT OBAMA
SHOULD HAVE DONE MORE IN
INVESTING IN UKRAINE BY A TRIO
OF AMBASSADORS INCLUDING WILLIAM
TAYLOR.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON, GENTLEMEN. I
WOULD LIKE TO WALK YOU THROUGH A
COUPLE POINTS RAISED BY MY
COLLEAGUE ON THE OTHER SIDE.
THEY CLAIM THE JULY 25th CALL
SUMMARY SHOWS NO EVIDENCE OF
PRESSURE ON THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT. IN FACT, THEY ARGUE
THE UKRAINIANS DID NOT FEEL ANY
PRESSURE AT ANY TIME TO COMPLY
WITH ANY OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATIONS. IN
FACT, AMBASSADOR TAYLOR IT'S
YOUR DEPOSITION IN OCTOBER YOU
STATED DUE TO THE HOLE THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP PLACED ON AID TO
THE UKRAINE, THE UKRAINIANS
BECAME QUOTE, UNQUOTE DESPERATE.
ISN'T THAT RIGHT?
>> IN AUGUST, THEY DID NOT KNOW,
AS FAR AS I'M AWARE. BUT AT THE
END OF AUGUST, THE ARTICLE CAME
OUT IN SEPTEMBER THAT THE
MINISTER OF DEFENSE, FOR
EXAMPLE, CAME TO ME. I WOULD USE
THE WORD DESPERATE. TO FIGURE
OUT WHY THE ASSISTANCE WAS BEING
WITHHELD. HE THOUGHT THAT
PERHAPS, IF HE WENT TO
WASHINGTON TO TALK TO YOU, TO
TALK TO SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, TO
TALK TO THE PRESIDENT, HE WOULD
BE ABLE TO FIND OUT AND
REASSURE, PROVIDE WHATEVER
ANSWER WAS NECESSARY TO HAVE
THAT ASSISTANCE RELEASED.
>> IN FACT, MY COLLEAGUES
SUGGEST THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
PERSONALLY DID NOT FEEL ANY
PRESSURE AT ANY TIME. AND YET
LATER ON IN SEPTEMBER, HE
FINALLY RELENTED IN A
CONVERSATION WITH GORDON
SONDLAND IN WHICH HE AGREED TO
MAKE A STATEMENT ON CNN; ISN'T
THAT RIGHT?
>> HE PLANNED TO MAKE A
STATEMENT ON CNN.
>> MY COLLEAGUES ALSO SAY THAT
THE HOLD ON U.S. SECURITY
ASSISTANCE WAS LIFTED ON
SEPTEMBER 11th WITHOUT ANY
INVESTIGATIONS HAPPENING ON THE
PART OF THE UKRAINIANS AND
THEREFORE EVERYTHING ENDED UP
FINE IN THE END. HOWEVER, MR.
KENT, AS YOU KNOW, THE HOUSE
INTELLIGENCE FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEES BEGAN THIS
CURRENT INVESTIGATION LEADING TO
THE PROCEEDINGS TODAY ON
SEPTEMBER 9th. IN FACT, IT WAS
ONLY TWO DAYS AFTER THIS
PARTICULAR SET OF COMMITTEES
BEGAN THEIR INVESTIGATIONS THAT
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
EVENTUALLY RELEASED THE MILITARY
AID. CORRECT?
>> THAT IS A TIMELINE, YES.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, BETWEEN
THE TIME OF YOUR OCTOBER
DEPOSITION AND NOW, DID ANYONE
FROM THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
CONTACT YOU ABOUT YOUR
APPEARANCE BEFORE THE COMMITTEE
TODAY?
>> NO, SIR.
>> HOW ABOUT YOU MR. KENT?
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, I WOULD
LIKE TO RETURN TO A WORD THAT
YOU USED 13 TIMES IN YOUR
OPENING STATEMENT. THAT WORD IS
CONCERN. YOU WERE CONCERNED AID
WAS BEING CONDITIONED ON
POLITICAL INVESTIGATIONS. ISN'T
THAT RIGHT?
>> YES, SIR.
>> YOU WERE CONCERNED THAT
IRREGULAR CHANNELS OF DIPLOMACY
WERE BEING USED IN OUR FOREIGN
POLICY IN THE UKRAINE; RIGHT?
>> YES, SIR.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, CAN YOU
RULE OUT THE POSSIBILITY THAT
THESE IRREGULAR CHANNELS OF
DIPLOMACIES ARE BEING USED IN
OTHER COUNTRIES. WHERE
WE CONDUCT FOREIGN POLICY?
>> I CAN'T -- I'VE NOT HEARD OF
ANY OTHER OF SEPARATE CHANNELS
THAT HAS THIS KIND OF INFLUENCE.
THAT IS THE GULIANI KIND OF
GUIDANCE.
>> BUT YOU CAN'T RULE IT OUT;
RIGHT?
>> NO, SIR.
>> HOW ABOUT YOU MR. KENT? YOU
CAN'T RULE IT OUT EITHER.
>> I HAVE NO BASIS TO MAKE A
DETERMINATION.
>> YOU DON'T BELIEVE THE
JULY 25th
CALL WAS PERFECT. DO YOU?
>> I THINK SOME OF THE LANGUAGE
IN THE CALL GAVE CAUSE FOR
CONCERN.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR?
>> I AGREE.
>> WHAT WAS THE CAUSE FOR
CONCERN FOR YOU?
>> THERE WAS PART -- THE
DISCUSSION OF THE PREVIOUS
AMBASSADOR WAS A CAUSE FOR
CONCERN.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, I WANT TO
DRAW ON YOUR EXPERIENCE AS A
WEST POINT CADET AND INFANTRY
COMMANDER IN VIETNAM. IN A
BATTLEFIELD SITUATION, IS A
COMMANDING OFFICER ABLE TO HOLD
UP ACTION, PLACING HIS TROOPS AT
RISK UNTIL SOMEONE PROVIDES HIM
A PERSONAL BENEFIT?
>> NO, SIR.
>> IS THAT BECAUSE IF COMMANDING
OFFICERS DID THAT, THEY WOULD BE
BETRAYING THEIR RESPONSIBILITY
TO THE NATION AND MEN AND WOMEN
UNDER THEIR COMMAND?
>> YES, SIR.
>> AND IF THAT WERE HAPPENED AND
FOUND OUT, COULD THAT PERSON BE
SUBJECT TO DISCIPLINE. WOULD
>> WOULD THAT KIND OF TARGET
TRIGGER A COURT-MARTIAL?
>> YES, SIR.
>> THANK YOU, I
YIELD BACK.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN. I HAVE AN
UNANIMOUS CONSENT TO ENTER INTO
THE RECORD WHERE MR. MULVANEY
SAID THERE IS NO QUID PRO QUO.
>> WITHOUT OBJECTION.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN.
>> I RECOGNIZE MR. NUNES FOR HIS
COMMENTS. WE
WILL GET YOUR MOTION. AFTER MR.
NUNES BRIEF CLOSING MARKS. WE'LL
HAVE A VERY BRIEF RECESS.
MEMBERS SHOULD NOT GO FAR. WE
WILL RESUME AND TAKE IN MR.
CONWAY'S MOTION.
>> THANK YOU. I WILL BE BRIEF. I
WANT TO REITERATE WHAT I SAID
EARLIER. THAT IS WE SHOULD STOP
HOLDING THESE HEARINGS UNTIL WE
GET THE ANSWER TO THREE
IMPORTANT TOPICS. THE FIRST
BEING THE FULL EXTENT OF THE
DEMOCRATS PRIOR COORDINATION OF
THE WHISTLE BROADWAYER. AND WHO
DID THE WHISTLEBLOWER COORDINATE
WITH. AND SECOND THE FULL EXTENT
OF THE UKRAINE'S ELECTION
MEDDLING. AND THIRD,
WHY DID BARRIS MA HIRE -- YOU
ARE NOT ALLOWING THOSE WITNESSES
TO APPEAR BEFORE THE COMMITTEE.
WHICH I THINK IS A PROBLEM. SO
WE WILL EXPECT, HOPEFULLY, YOU
WILL ALLOWS TO BRING IN THE
WHISTLEBLOWER. THE FOLKS THAT HE
SPOKE TO AND ALSO NUMEROUS
DEMOCRATIC OPERATIVES WHO WORKED
WITH UKRAINE TO MEDDLE IN THE
ELECTION. FROM THAT I WILL YIELD
BACK.
>> I THANK THE GENTLEMAN. I WANT
TO THANK THE WITNESSES FOR THEIR
TESTIMONY TODAY. FOR YOUR
DECADES OF SERVICE TO THE
COUNTRY. I THINK YOU EXEMPLIFY
SO MANY COURAGEOUS MEN AND WOMEN
WHO SERVED ON THE DIPLOMATIC
CORE, IN THE MILITARY. WHO
SERVED THE UNITED STATES SO WELL
AROUND THE WORLD. I APPRECIATE
HOW YOU ENDEAVOR TO STAY OUT OF
THE FRAY, TO RELAY WHAT YOU
HEARD, WHAT YOU SAW WITHOUT
ADDITIONAL COMMENTARY. THAT IS
AS IT SHOULD BE. YOU ARE BOTH
COMPELLED TO APPEAR AND WE ARE
GRATEFUL THAT YOU ANSWERED THE
LAWFUL SUBPOENAS THAT YOU
RECEIVED. THE STORY THAT YOU
HAVE SHARED WITH US TODAY AND
YOUR EXPERIENCES I THINK IS A
VERY DEEPLY TROUBLING ONE. IT IS
THE STORY OF A DEDICATED
AMBASSADOR, SOMEONE WHO SERVED
WITH GREAT DISTINCTION.
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH WHO IS
THE SUBJECT OF A VICIOUS SMEAR
CAMPAIGN ADD THE THE BEGINNING
OF THE YEAR. IT IS THE STORY OF
ONCE THIS AMBASSADOR WAS PUSHED
OUT OF THE WAY, THE CREATION OF
AN IRREGULAR CHANNEL WHICH
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR YOU DESCRIBED
WENT ALL THE WAY FROM THE
PRESIDENT THROUGH MICK MULVANEY
TO AMBASSADOR SONDLAND THROUGH
AMBASSADOR VOLKER TO RUDY
GULIANI. THAT OVER TIME BECAME
APPARENT WAS NOT SERVING THE
U.S. INTEREST, BUT RUNNING
DEEPLY CONTRARY TO THE U.S.
INTEREST. WAS IN FACT
CONDITIONING A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING THAT THE PRESIDENT TO
UKRAINE DESPERATELY SOUGHT TO
ESTABLISH HIMSELF AS THE NEW
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE AND TO
PRESIDENT FRIEND AND FOE ALIKE
THAT HE HAD A RELATIONSHIP WITH
HIS MOST POWERFUL PATRON, THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. AND
CONDITIONED $400 MILLION OF
BIPARTISAN TAXPAYER FUNDED
MILITARY SUPPORT FOR A NATION AT
WAR. ON THE FRONT LINES OF
RUSSIAN EXPANSIONISM. A
SUSPENSION OF WHICH WAS NOT IN
THE U.S. INTEREST, NOT IN
UKRAINE'S INTEREST, NOT IN OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST, AND
NO WAY, SHAPE, OR FORM. YOU'VE
DESCRIBED A SITUATION IN WHICH
THOSE IN THE SERVICE OF THE
PRESIDENT MADE IT CLEAR TO
UKRAINIANS THEY NEED TO PUBLICLY
ANNOUNCE THESE INVESTIGATIONS OR
THEY WEREN'T GOING TO GET THAT
MEETING AND THEY SURE WEREN'T
GOING TO GET THAT MILITARY
ASSISTANCE. NOW I WOULD POINT
OUT AND THIS MAY NOT HAVE COME
TO YOUR ATTENTION, BUT IT CAME
TO OUR ATTENTION. ON SEPTEMBER
9th, INSPECTOR GENERAL INFORMED
OUR COMMITTEE THAT THE DIRECTOR
OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE WAS
WITHHOLDING A WHISTLEBLOWER
COMPLAINT IN VIOLATION OF THE
STATUE. BY THAT POINT ON
SEPTEMBER 9th, THE COMPLAINT HAD
MADE ITS WAY TO THE WHITE HOUSE.
ON SEPTEMBER 9th WHEN THE
INSPECTOR GENERAL INFORMED
CONGRESS THAT THE COMPLAINT HAD
BEEN HELD, THE WHITE HOUSE
LEARNED THAT CONGRESS WOULD
LEARN ABOUT THE COMPLAINT. IT
WAS LESS THAN 48 HOURS LATER
THAT THE
MILITARY AID WOULD BE RELEASED.
OVER THE WEEKS TO COME OR OVER
THE DAYS TO COME, RATHER, WE
WOULD HEAR THERE OTHER DEDICATED
PUBLIC SERVANTS. OTHER ASPECTS
OF THIS TO CONDITION A WHITE
HOUSE MEETING AND MILITARY AID
FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF POLITICAL
FAVORS FOR THE PRESIDENT'S
REELECTION CAMPAIGN. WE WILL
HEAR FROM OTHER WITNESSES. I
APPRECIATE MEMBERS ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE AISLE WHO I THINK
PARTICIPATED TODAY IN A SERIOUS
WAY AND IN A CIVIL WAY. THIS IS
AS IT SHOULD BE. THERE IS NO
SHORTAGE OF STRONG FEELINGS
ABOUT WHAT THIS MEANS TO THE
COUNTRY. AT THE END OF THE DAY
WE'LL HAVE TO DECIDE BASED ON
THE EVIDENCE THAT YOU AND OTHERS
PROVIDE WHETHER WE ARE PREPARED
TO ACCEPT IN THE PRESENCE OF THE
UNITED STATES A SITUATION WHERE
THE PRESIDENT FOR THEIR OWN
PERSONAL OR POLITICAL BENEFIT,
CAN CONDITION MILITARY AID,
DIPLOMATIC MEETINGS, OR ANY
OTHER PERFORMANCE OF AN OFFICIAL
ACT IN ORDER TO GET HELP IN
THEIR REELECTION. WHETHER WE
WILL NEED TO ACCEPT THIS
PRESIDENT OR ANY FUTURE
PRESIDENT THAT THE IDEA OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
CAN INVITE A FOREIGN COUNTRY TO
INTERVENE IN OUR AFFAIRS. THIS
IS A DECISION WE WILL HAVE TO
MAKE WHEN WE DECIDE WHETHER THIS
PRESIDENT SHOULD BE IMPEACHED.
BUT I WANT TO THANK YOU AGAIN.
JUST CONCLUDE BY SAYING BECAUSE
I CAN'T LET IT GO UNANSWERED, MY
COLLEAGUES MADE THIS STATEMENT
REPEATED THAT I MET WITH THE
WHISTLEBLOWER THAT I KNOW THE
WHISTLEBLOWER. IT WAS FALSE THE
FIRST TIME THEY SAID IT. IT WAS
FALSE THE SECOND TO
40th TIME THEY SAID IT. IT WILL
BE FALSE THE LAST TIME THEY SAID
IT. I ASK EVERYONE TO REMAIN IN
THEIR SEATS. THE WITNESSES ARE
EXCUSED. PLEASE ALLOW THEM TO
LEAVE THE COMMITTEE ROOM. ONCE
THEY LEAVE THE COMMITTEE ROOM,
WE WILL TAKE A BRIEF RECESS AND
THEN WE WILL RESUME TO TAKE UP
MR. CONAWAY'S MOTION. ONCE
AGAIN, I THANK YOU YOU
GENTLEMEN.
>>> AND THE WITNESSES HAVE
EXITED THE HEARING ROOM. THE
SITE OF THIS FIRST IMPEACHMENT
HEARING. THE FIRST PUBLIC
HEARING THAT IS. MANY HAVE
HAPPENED BEHIND CLOSED DOORS.
THIS WAS THE PUBLIC'S FIRST TIME
TO GET A LOOK AT THE PROCESS.
YOU'VE BEEN WATCHING IT LIVE ON
THE WASHINGTON POST STREAM. I'M
JOINED HERE IN OUR STUDIO BY
JOHN HUDSON. NATIONAL SECURITY
REPORTER. AND AMBER PHILLIPS
REPORTER FOR THE FIX. REMINDER
TO EVERYONE WATCHING WE'LL BE
RIGHT BACK HERE ON FRIDAY AS
MARIE YOVANOVITCH THE FORMER
AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE TESTIFIES
BEFORE THIS SAME COMMITTEE. I
WANT TO TALK TO YOU JOHN AND
AMBER ABOUT THE BIGGEST
TAKEAWAYS. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR AND
MR. KENT KEPT REPEATING WE ARE
NOT HERE TO PUSH AN AGENDA OR BE
ON ANYONE'S SIDE. BUT JOHN, DID
THEY ULTIMATELY HELP OR HURT AN
ARGUMENT HERE THAT REPUBLICANS
OR DEMOCRATS ARE TRYING TO MAKE?
>> YEAH. YOU CAN SEE A NUMBER OF
TIMES THE DEMOCRATS DID COME
AWAY PRETTY SATISFIED WITH JUST
SETTING UP QUESTIONS THAT WERE
VERY TAILORED TOWARD THEY'RE
TESTIMONIES THAT THEY HAD MADE
PREVIOUSLY. CAN WE GO LINE BY
LINE? WHEN DID YOU LEARN ABOUT
THE MILITARY ASSISTANCE BEING
HELD UP? WHAT WERE YOUR
CONCERNS? AND THEY REALLY STAYED
TRUE TO THEIR TESTIMONY. THEY
HELPED VERIFY AND CORROBORATE
THE CONCEPT OF A QUID PRO QUO.
WHAT THEY SAW. THEY SAW CLEARLY
IN THEIR VIEWS THE UNITED STATES
LEVERAGING THIS MILITARY
ASSISTANCE IN EXCHANGE FOR GOING
AFTER THE PRESIDENT'S POLITICAL
RIVALS. AND ON THE OTHER SIDE
FOR THE REPUBLICANS, THERE WAS
SOME FRUSTRATION THAT SOME OF
THE INDIVIDUALS SUCH AS GEORGE
KENT WERE WILLING TO
SUBSTANCEUATE SOME OF THEIR
VIEWS. ONE THING THEY WERE
TRYING TO PROP UP IS THIS
CONSPIRACY THEORY THAT UKRAINE
WAS INTERFERING IN THE 2016
ELECTION AND PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
EVERY RIGHT TO BE SKEPTICAL.
GEORGE KENT, THE DEPUTY
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATESAID
HE DIDN'T BELIEVE THAT WAS TRUE.
AND THERE WAS SOME FRUSTRATION
BY SOME OF THE QUESTIONNAIRES IN
PARTICULARLY, INCLUDING THE TOP
REPUBLICAN LAWYER WHO SAID I'M
JUST GOING TO SKIP YOU ON THIS
QUESTION AND MOVE ON TO
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR. AND SO, THERE
WAS SOMETHING FOR EVERYBODY. THE
REPUBLICANS DIDN'T LOSE
EVERYTHING. THEY WENT TO KENT
AND ASKED HIM ABOUT HIS CONCERNS
ABOUT HUNTER BIDEN TAKING A
BOARD SEAT. AND HE STATED VERY
CLEARLY, IT WAS HIS VIEW THAT
THE APPEARANCE OF A CONFLICT OF
INTEREST WAS A PROBLEM. AND TO
HAVE JOE BIDEN'S SON ON THIS
BOARD WHILE JOE BIDEN WAS
RUNNING UKRAINE POLICY WAS A
PROBLEM. AND HE CALLED UPON IT.
AND THE VICE PRESIDENT'S OFFICE
THE THE TIME DIDN'T GET ANYTHING
BACK. SO IN THAT WAY THE
REPUBLICANS GOT SOMETHING FROM
THIS. BUT IN GENERAL YOU SAW THE
DEMOCRATS GETTING FURTHER
CONFIRMATION FOR THIS MAIN THEME
AND NARRATIVE THEY'VE BEEN
TRYING TO BUILD UP. AND
REPUBLICANS LARGELY BEING
FRUSTRATED, TRYING TO CHIP AWAY
AT THEIR CREDIBILITY IN GENERAL.
>> I WANT TO POINT OUT, YOU CAN
SEE THERE INSIDE OUR LARGER BOX
THE WHITE HOUSE. WHERE WE'RE
AWAITING PRESIDENT TRUMP. HE MAY
COME
OUT SHORTLY AND MAKE COMMENTS
WITH PRESIDENT OF TURKEY. WE
EXPECT THEM TO COME OUT SHORTLY.
IF IT HAPPENS IN THE NEXT LITTLE
WHILE, WE WILL BRING THAT TO YOU
LIVE. AMBER, WHILE WE KEEP OUR
EYE ON THE WHITE HOUSE, I WANT
TO HEAR YOUR TOP TAKEAWAYS.
>> YES. I WROTE THEM DOWN. I
THINK THE TWO DIPLOMATS
TESTIFIED THERE WAS A CONCERTED
EFFORT BY PEOPLE IN TRUMP'S
ORBIT TO FORCE UKRAINE TO
INVESTIGATE DEMOCRATS. AND THEY
SAW THAT UNDER MINE U.S.
INTEREST AND NATIONAL SECURITY.
TAYLOR AND KENT FRAMED
THEMSELVES AS A WHISTLEBLOWER IN
A WAY. AS I SAID EARLIER, TAYLOR
WAS REPORTING OUT ALL OF THESE
ASPECTS. AND WHEN IT QUIT FOR
HIM IT'S LIKE OH MY GOODNESS,
THIS IS BAD NEWS. AND HE IS
ALREADY MAN WILLING TO GO IN
FRONT OF CONGRESS AND SHARE
EVERY SINGLE DETAIL DAY BY DAY
IN WHAT HE FELT WAS A CLEAR
EFFORT TO GIVE UKRAINE A QUID
PRO QUO.
>> TAYLOR TESTIFIED ABOUT A
REGULAR CHANNEL AND IRREGULAR
CHANNEL OF POLICYMAKING. THE
REPUBLICANS LAWYERS TRIED TO
DOWN PLAY THAT DESCRIPTION OF
IRREGULAR CHANNEL. LET'S WATCH.
>> AND THE SECOND MEMBER OF THE
IRREGULAR CHANNEL IS AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND. WHO IS SENATE
CONFIRMED. AMBASSADOR TO THE EU.
HIS INVOLVEMENT IS CERTAINLY NOT
OUT LANDISH FOR HIM TO BE
INTERESTED AND ENGAGED PURSUANT
TO THE PRESIDENT OR POMPEO'S
DIRECTION.
>> IT IS UNUSUAL FOR THE U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO THE EU TO PLAY A
ROLE IN UKRAINE POLICY.
>> AND IT MIGHT BE IRREGULAR,
BUT IT'S CERTAINLY NOT OUT
LANDISH. AND THEN SECRETARY
PERRY IS THE THIRD MEMBER OF THE
IRREGULAR CHANNEL.
>> AMBASSADOR TAYLOR'S RESPONSE
THERE AND THINGS WRITTEN ON HIS
FACE SAID A LOT. AMBER, YOU LOOK
LIKE YOU HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY
ABOUT THIS.
>> I FEEL YOU ARE PLAYING THIS
CONVERSATION FOR A REASON
BECAUSE IT IS THE HEADLINE OF
REPUBLICANS REBUTTAL TO ALL OF
THIS. WHAT HE SAID WAS, WELL,
IT'S NOT THAT OUT LANDISH. I
FEEL LIKE TO SOME DEGREE THAT
EPITOMIZES WHERE REPUBLICANS ARE
IN TRYING TO DRAW THE LINE ON
WHAT IS IMPEACHABLE. IT'S NOT
THAT OUT LANDISH.
>> I FELT IT WAS STRANGE MAYBE A
MISREAD OF WHERE TAYLOR IS ON
THIS SITUATION. I THINK WHERE
CASTOR WAS COMING, THERE IS A
HISTORY OF AMERICAN POLITICS IN
U.S. PRESIDENTS TAPPING
OUTSIDERS. TO HELP THEM ON
FOREIGN POLICY. TO GETTING
COUNSELED FROM OUTSIDERS. BUT IN
THIS SITUATION, YOU HAVE THE
PRESIDENT'S PERSONAL ATTORNEY
WHO DOESN'T REALLY HAVEAN
EXPERTISE.
>> RUDY GULIANI.
>> RUDY GULIANI. AND YOU ALSO
HAVE TENSE TESTIMONY WHICH IS
BASICALLY A LAUNDRY LIST OF
FRUSTRATIONS WITH THE WAY THAT
GULIANI WAS CONDUCTING THAT
SHADOW CAMPAIGN. AND SO, TO FIND
KENT AS SOME SORT OF SYMPATHETIC
VOICE TOWARD THIS CHANNEL IS AN
INTERESTING LINE. HE STUCK HIS
NECK OUT A LITTLE BIT TO GET AN
ANSWER THERE. AND TAYLOR
OBVIOUSLY WAS NOT GOING TO HELP
HIM IN THAT SITUATION. AND IT
WAS PRETTY CLEAR WAS NOT WILLING
TO DOWN PLAY WHAT HE VIEWED AS
AN IRREGULAR CHANNEL THAT WAS
WORKING AGAINST THE INTEREST
THAT HE WAS PLAYING FOR. LET'S
REMEMBER IT WAS HIS VIEW THAT HE
WAS GOING TO COME OUT OF
RETIREMENT AND TAKE THIS
POSITION IN UKRAINE. AND TRY TO
HELP WHAT HE VIEWED AS A
FLEDGLING GOVERNMENT THAT WAS
FIGHTING OFF RUSSIAN BACKED
SEPARATIST. FOR HIM IT WAS
IMPORTANT FOR PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
TO GET A PRESIDENTIAL MEETING
FOR THE MILITARY AID TO FLOW.
AND THOSE THINGS WERE BEING
STOPPED IN HIS VIEW AS WE ALL
SAW ON THE TEXT MESSAGE, IT WAS
CRAZY THAT WASN'T HAPPENING.
THAT WAS TAYLOR FIGHTING THIS
IRREGULAR CHANNEL THE WHOLE WAY
THROUGH. SO IT MIGHT NOT BE
OUTLANDISH. BUT IT WASN'T GOING
TO BE SOMETHING HE WOULD DEFEND,
AND IT BLEW UP IN HIS FACE.
>> YOU TRY TO GET A SENSE OF
WHAT STEVE CASTER, THE COUNSEL
TO REPUBLICANS WAS GETTING AT. I
HAD A HARD TIME GRABBING IT BY
THE TAIL A COUPLE OF TIMES. DID
YOU FEEL HE WAS ABLE TO FOLLOW
THROUGH? HE HAD THIS
UNINTERRUPTED, LARGELY
UNINTERRUPTED ALTHOUGH CHAIRMAN
SCHIFF DID POP IN AT ONE POINT.
LARGELY UNINTERRUPTED FLOOR. AN
OPPORTUNITY TO BUILD A CASE LIKE
YOU WOULD IN A TRIAL, AND LAND
HOME HIS ARGUMENT. DID YOU GET A
SENSE IF HE WAS ABLE TO DO THAT.
OR HE TOOK A COUPLE DIFFERENT
APPROACHES AND IT DIDN'T
NECESSARILY AMOUNT TO PERHAPS AS
MUCH AS SOME REPUBLICANS HOPED
IT WOULD.
>> YEAH, I 42 IT WAS CHALLENGING
FOR THEM TO DO THAT. THESE WERE
TWO DIPLOMATS THAT WERE HIP SET.
AND SO THE ONLY REAL WAY TO
REALLY MAKE THEM LESS EFFECTIVE
IN THIS SORT OF PUBLIC SPECT
CALL THAT IS AN OPEN IMPEACHMENT
HEARING IS TO ATTACK THEIR
CREDIBILITY. AND THAT IS ALSO A
DIFFICULT THING TO DO, OF
COURSE. HE DIDN'T GO DOWN THAT
ROUTE. AND YOU DID SEE SOME
OTHER REPUBLICANS TRY
TO TAKE AWAY THEIR CREDIBILITY.
TO THE EXTENT WITH HE WAS
CHALLENGING THEIR ACCOUNT, HIS
STRATEGY WAS THEY DIDN'T HAVE
FIRSTHAND EXPERIENCE WITH HIM.
AND SOME OF HIS OTHER REPUBLICAN
COLLEAGUES UNDER SCORE THAT EVEN
MORE THAN HE DID. BUT THAT WAS
HIS TACTIC. AND YOU DID SEE HIM
STRUGGLING A LITTLE BIT. NONE
MORE THAN IN THE CLIP YOU JUST
FEATURED. THAT REALLY BLEW UP IN
FACE.
>> OUR COLLEAGUE RON HAS BEEN ON
CAPITOL HILL AND INSIDE THAT
HEARING ROOM IN LONGWORTH
MONITORING THINGS THROUGHOUT THE
DAY. I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR YOUR
TOP TAKEAWAYS.
>> WELL, IN GENERAL, LIBBY, OVER
ALL, YOU CAN TELL THERE IS A LOT
OF INTEREST IN THESE TESTIMONIES
TODAY. FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE
HEARING. AT FIRST I NOTICED
THERE WAS A LINE OF CONGRESSMEN
AND WOMEN THAT ARE NOT ON THIS
COMMITTEE THAT WERE SEATED IN
THE AUDIENCE. AND THAT IS VERY
RARE. MOSTLY COMMITTEE MEMBERS
ATTEND THEIR OWN COMMITTEES 37.
BUT THERE WERE MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS WATCHING WHAT WAS
HAPPENING TODAY FROM THE
AUDIENCE. AND I CAN HEAR THEM
MAKE SOUNDS AND SPEAK TO
THEMSELVES ABOUT WHAT THEY HEARD
AND REACTING IN REALTIME. MANY
SAID THEY WANTED TO HEAR WHAT
WAS GOING ON. SOME OF THEM
BELONGED TO THE COMMITTEE THAT
IS PART OF THIS INVESTIGATION.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS COMMITTEE AND
ALSO THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE AS
WELL AS OVERSIGHT. THEY WANTED
TO BE A PART OF THIS TODAY AND
HEAR AND HAVE THEIR OWN
TAKEAWAYS. SO THAT WAS
INTERESTING TO SEE MEMBERS THERE
AND LISTENING AND BEING ENGAGED
IN TODAY'S PROCEEDINGS. ANOTHER
THING THAT I NOTICED TOO, AND I
THINK SOMEONE TALKED ABOUT THE
REPUBLICANS TACTIC TODAY. THE
REPUBLICANS UTILIZED THEIR HARD
LINE MEMBERS A LOT TODAY.
REPRESENTATIVEBRANT CLIFF OF
TEXAS. JIM JORDON OF OHIO. JIM
JORDON WAS ADDED TO THIS
COMMITTEE LATE LAST WEEK. HE WAS
NOT A MEMBER OF THE COMMITTEE
UNTIL KEVIN PUT HIM ON LAST
WEEK. BECAUSE THEY WANTED
SOMEONE THAT WOULD BE VERY VOCAL
AND CHALLENGE THESE WITNESSES.
SO THAT WAS VERY INTERESTING TO
SEE. MANY MEMBERS GAVE UP THEIR
TIME AND YIELDED A FEW MINUTES
AND SECONDS TO THOSE MEMBERS. SO
I THINK THIS MAY HAVE SET THE
STAGE FOR WHAT WE MIGHT SEE ON
FRIDAY WITH FORMER AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH WHEN SHE COMES. THE
TWO WITNESSES DISCUSS HOW THEY
LOOK UP TO HER AND HOW SHE WAS
TREATED UNFAIRLY. AGAIN, WE WILL
BE HERE ON FRIDAY AND REPORT
BACK ON WHAT HAPPENS THEN.
>> ALL RIGHT, GREAT, THANKS SO
MUCH. LIVE ON CAPITOL HILL. THE
REPUBLICANS TOOK A COUPLE
DIFFERENT TACTICS TO TRY TO
MINIMIZE OR DISMISS THE CONCERNS
THAT DEMOCRATS ARE RAISING. ONE
OF THEM WHAT IS INTERESTING
BECAUSE IT WAS ELYSE AND WILL
HERD. WILL HERD IS A MODERATE
REPUBLICAN FROM TEXAS. SOMEONE
WHO HAS BEEN ABLE TO CRITICIZE
PRESIDENT TRUMP. BUT THEY DID
NOT LEAVE ANY CRACK OPEN IN A
DOOR FRAME EVEN A GUESS OF MIGHT
THEY SUPPORT IMPEACHMENT. THEY
MADE THE CASE OF HEY, UKRAINE
GOT MILITARY ASSISTANCE. IN
FACT, THEY GOT SOME THINGS THEY
DIDN'T GET UNDER THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION. AND CORRUPTION
WAS SOMETHING THAT WAS A CONCERN
FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE ACCORDING TO
CONGRESSMAN STEPHONIC. AND SHE
HAD THE WITNESSES TESTIFY TO THE
FACT THAT CORRUPTION HAS BEEN A
CONCERN ABOUT UKRAINE GENERALLY.
SO WHAT DOES THAT TELL US? IF
THEY WERE NOT WILLING TO BE
CRITICAL OF PRESIDENT TRUMP IN
THIS MOMENT?
>> YEAH, I DON'T SEE ANY
EVIDENCE OF REPUBLICAN
DEFECTIONS IN THE HOUSE AT THIS
POINT. I SEE ALMOST EVERYONE TO
A TEE. INCLUDING RETIRING
MEMBERS LIKE WILL HERD THAT
DOESN'T HAVE A LOT TO LOSE
POLITICALLY. DEFENDING PRESIDENT
TRUMP. AND THAT IS GOOD FOR
PRESIDENT TRUMP. IN THE EXTENT
WHEN THE HOUSE VOTE IN A MONTH
OR TWO ABOUT WHAT AN IMPEACH
TRUMP, ALL DEMOCRATS YES. ALL
REPUBLICANS NO. THE PRESIDENT
CAN SAY LOOK, THIS WAS THE
PARTISAN EXERCISE AND THAT I
THINK BOLSTERS SENATE
REPUBLICANS TO HELP BACK HIM UP
AS WELL.
>> ANOTHER ARGUMENT THAT JIM
JORDAN MADE AND RHONDA POINTED
OUT HE WAS BROUGHT IN TO BE THAT
ATTACK CHARACTER. HE AT ONE
POINT TRIED TO MAKE IT FEEL
CONFUSING, JOHN. HE WAS READING
SOMETHING TO AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
ABOUT WHAT SONDLAND HAD SAID.
AND IT WAS A LOT OF NAMES, IT
WAS A LOT OF INFORMATION. BUT
ULTIMATELY AMBASSADOR TAYLOR WAS
LIKE IT MAKES SENSE TO ME. EVEN
THOUGH JORDAN IS DISMISSING IT
AND TRYING TO MAKE IT SOUND LIKE
A WORD SALAD.
>> JORDAN IS AWARE THAT THE
AVERAGE AMERICAN VIEWER TUNING
IN IS NOT GOING TO BE INTENSELY
AWARE OF WHO THE X UKRAINIAN
PERHAPS CUE TOUR WAS.
AND SO, THESE PEOPLE ARE
BECOMING HOUSEHOLD NAMES, WE'RE
DOING MORE REPORTING ON IT TO
MAKE PEOPLE UNDERSTAND THE
VARIOUS CAST OF CHARACTERS ON
ALL SIDES. BUT THE REPUBLICANS
DO HAVE AN ADVANTAGE THAT AN
INVESTIGATION ON THE MURKY UNDER
WORLD OF UKRAINIAN POLITICS IS
AN EXERCISE. SO IT IS TRUE THAT
NOT EVERYONE THESE NAMES DON'T
RESINATE IN A REALLY BIG WAY. SO
THAT IS THE CHALLENGE THAT THE
DEMOCRATS HAVE OF ESTABLISHING A
CLEAR NARRATIVE AND SOMETHING
THAT IS UNDERSTANDABLE. AND
SOMETHING THAT WAS VERY
DIFFICULT A NUMBER OF DEMOCRATS
WOULD ACKNOWLEDGE IN THE MUELLER
INVESTIGATION. BECAUSE THERE WAS
A LOT OF SHADOWY CHARACTERS AND
IT WAS DIFFICULT TO WRAP YOUR
HEAD AROUND. WHAT DEMOCRATS SAY,
THEY HAVE A CLEAR NARRATIVE THIS
TIME. WHICH IS A LITTLE BIT MORE
EASY FOR PEOPLE TO UNDERSTAND.
THIS COUNTRY NEEDED MILITARY AID
VERY MUCH. THE PRESIDENT WANTED
THEM TO INVESTIGATE HIS
POLITICAL RIVAL. QUID PRO QUO.
BUT TO THE EXTENT THAT THE
REPUBLICANS CAN POINT OUT HOW
DIFFICULT THIS NARRATIVE IS TO
UNDERSTAND, THEY ARE DEFINITELY
DOING THAT.
>> OF COURSE THE TWO PEOPLE WE
ARE TALKING TO ARE THE MOST
EXPERIENCED. AND SO MR. TAYLOR,
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR SAYS WHAT I'M
READING, WHAT I'M HEARING YOU
SAY FROM AMBASSADOR SONDLAND, HE
REMEMBERS IT THE SAME WAY I DO.
AND WHEN JORDAN KEPT GOING WITH
IT ABOUT HOW IT DIDN'T REALLY
MAKE A LOT OF SENSE, TAYLOR SAID
IT'S VERY CLEAR TO ME. SO HE'S
TRYING TO BUTTON THAT UP.
BECAUSE THIS IS NOT A BUNCH OF
CONFUSING NAMES, THIS IS THEIR
EXPERTISE.
>> WE ARE TALK ABOUT GEORGE KENT
WHO IS THE FOREMOST UKRAINE
EXPERT IN THE DEPARTMENT. THIS
IS WHOSE WIFE IS OF DECENT. HE
WEARS A BOW TIE. HE LIVES AND
BREATHES THIS STUFF. AND SO WHEN
-- AND TAYLOR IS NO SLOUCH
EITHER. HE'S BEEN WORKING IN
EASTERN EUROPE AND INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS INSIDE, OUTSIDE OF
GOVERNMENT FOR DECADES UPON
DECADES. SO, YEAH, THESE GUYS
WERE NOT AT ALL.
>> THEY'RE NOT GOING TO GET
CONFUSED BY A LOT OF UKRAINIAN
NAMES.
>> ALL RIGHT. I MIGHT START
WEARING A BOW TIE IF IT HELPS ME
UNDERSTAND. I WANT TO TALK ABOUT
THE DEMOCRATS TACTICS AND WHAT
THEY WERE TRYING TO POINT OUT
AND BRING TO THE FLOOR. IT WAS
CHAIRMAN SCHIFF WHO WAS DOING A
LOT OF THE ARGUING. BUT
DEMOCRATS DOWN THE ROSTER HAD A
FEW
MOMENTS. HERE'S WHAT CONGRESSMAN
JOAQUIN CASTRO ON
>> -- WHETHER OR NOT YOU ARE
ACTUALLY SUCCESSFUL
IN COMMITTING THE CRIME. LET'S
WATCH.
>> SO AMBASSADORS, IS ATTEMPTED
MURDER A CRIME? IS ATTEMPTED
MURDER A CRIME?
>> ATTEMPTED MURDER IS A CRIME.
>> IS ATTEMPTED ROBBERY A CRIME?
>> NEITHER OF US IS A LAWYER.
>> I THINK ANYBODY IN THIS ROOM
CAN ANSWER THAT QUESTION.
>> I WILL GO OUT ON A LIMB AND
SAY YES IT IS.
>> IS ATTEMPTED EXTORTION AND
BRIBERY A CRIME?
>> I DON'T KNOW, SIR.
>> WHY
IS THIS IMPORTANT, AMBER?
>> BECAUSE WHAT HE'S TRYING TO
DO IS COUNTER THE REPUBLICAN
ARGUMENT. WHICH IS THEY GOT
THEIR MILITARY AID. SO THERE IS
NO QUID PRO QUO. WHAT CASTRO IS
TRYING TO SAY. THE FACT THAT
TRUMP TRIED TO HOLD IT BACK,
EVEN THOUGH CONGRESS WANTED TO
GO TO UKRAINE TO GET WHAT
BENEFITS HIM IS WRONG ENOUGH AND
IMPEACHABLE ENOUGH. AND I HAVE
SEEN DOWN THE STRETCH, THAT I
THINK IS WHERE TRUMP IS GOING TO
RISE OR FALL. MAYBE IT WAS
WRONG. LIKE IF THEY ARE STARTING
TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT BASED ON THE
EVIDENCE AND WITNESS TESTIMONY.
BUT IT WAS AN IMPEACHABLE AND I
THINK YOU FOLD IN PART OF THE
ARGUMENT THAT REPUBLICANS MADE
TODAY. IT WAS AN IMPEACHABLE
BECAUSE UKRAINE GOT THEIR AID.
>> THAT IS EXACTLY RIGHT. AND
YOU KNOW, AND YOU ARE ALSO RIGHT
THAT IT RISES AND FALLS ON THIS.
BECAUSE THE QUESTION IS WHETHER
OR NOT IT'S A BIG PROBLEM THAT
OH, BUT HE GOT CAUGHT. AND IS
THAT THE REASON WHY? THERE IS SO
MUCH CONCERN ABOUT IT. AND YOU
KNOW, THAT IS WHY THE DEMOCRATS
WERE RESPONDING. WELL, THIS
BECAME A CONGRESSIONAL ISSUE.
THEY WERE UNDER A LOT OF
PRESSURE BECAUSE THE AID HAD
STOPPED.
>> PEOPLE IN CONGRESS WERE
PUSHING TO GET THE AID MOVING
FORWARD BECAUSE THEY HAD ALREADY
VOTED ON IT AND IT WAS A LOCK.
>> YEAH. AND MAYBE IT DIDN'T GET
AS MUCH ISSUE AS OF COURSE THE
IMPEACHMENT PHASE. BUT THERE WAS
A SMALL CHAPTER IN WASHINGTON
WHERE DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS
WERE AWARE THIS AID HAD BEEN PUT
ON HOLD. AND THEY PRESSURED
REPUBLICAN AND DEMOCRATIC
LEADERSHIP THE PRESIDENT TO TURN
THE FAUCET BACK ON. AND IT DID
HAPPEN. AND THAT IS WHERE THIS
DEBATE IS RIGHT NOW. AND THEY'RE
TRYING TO LITIGATE THIS OUT.
WELL, IT ONLY HAPPENED BECAUSE
THEY GOT CAUGHT. IS THAT A BAD
THING? AS CASTRO WAS TRYING TO
TEASE THIS OUT, THAT, YOU KNOW,
ATTEMPTED MURDER IS A PROBLEM.
AND EVEN THAT TAYLOR WAS WILLING
TO GO OUT AND SAY YEAH, THAT IS
TRUE. YOU WOULD BE VIOLATING THE
LAW.
>> DID TAYLOR TESTIFY? HE WAS
REALLY WORRIED THIS WAS GOING TO
HAPPEN. YOU KNOW, THEY HAD HIM
READ OUT LOUD HIS TEXT WHERE HE
SAID AND I QUIT. THIS IS MY
NIGHTMARE SCENARIO IF HE IS ON
CNN AND I'M INVESTIGATING
DEMOCRATS.
IT UNDER LIES THE SUPPORT IN
AMERICA AND THEY NEED THAT TO
COUNTER RUSSIA. IT WAS ALL
CONNECTED TO HIM. HE WAS REALLY
CONCERNED ABOUT THIS. AND HE
TESTIFIED BY HE TALKED
TOOFFICIALS IN PAT ZELENSKY'S
OFFICE AND SAID YOU ARE NOT
GOING TO GO ON CNN. PLEASE DON'T
DO THIS. PLEASE TELL THE
PRESIDENT NOT TO GO ON CNN. AND
SO I THINK THAT BOLSTERS
DEMOCRATS ARGUMENT THAT THE
PRESIDENT WAS INCHING FORWARD TO
COMMITTING A CRIME OR
IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT IS TO
COME. OKAY. SO WE WILL BE BACK
HERE FRIDAY FOR MARIE
YOVANOVITCH TO TESTIFY. JOHN,
WHY WILL YOU BE WATCHING THAT SO
CLOSELY?
>> MARIE YOVANOVITCH HAS OFFERED
ONE OF THE MOST COMPELLING
PERSONAL STORIES IN A SORT OF
TICK-TOCK IN HER CLOSED DOOR
DEPOSITIONS. THE EXPERIENCE OF
HAVING THIS SMEAR CAMPAIGN
AGAINST HER AND HOW MUCH THIS
HURT HER AND HOW DISAPPOINTED
AND INCREDULOUS THAT SHE DIDN'T
GET TOP LEVEL SUPPORT. THAT
IMPLICATES SECRETARY OF STATE
MIKE POMPEO WHO DID NOT STEP UP
AND SUPPORT HER. AND SO, YOU
KNOW, SHE'S GOING TO TALK ABOUT
THE SMEAR CAMPAIGN. SHE IS
EXPECTED THAT SHE WILL TALK
ABOUT THE EXPERIENCE OF BEING
TOLD BY HER SUPERIORS AT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT, GET ON THE
NEXT PLANE BACK TO WASHINGTON
AND BEING UNCEREMONIOUSLY
DISMISSED. AND SO I THINK A LOT
OF PEOPLE WILL BE WATCHING THAT
AND YOU KNOW THAT BRINGS A LOT
MORE SORT OF HUMAN DRAMA TO THIS
RATHER THAN WHAT WE SAW TODAY
WHICH WAS A VERY SORT OF
DETAILED, PRECISE RECOUNTING OF
PHONE CALLS, TEXT MESSAGES, AND
E-MAILS. THERE IS A LOT MORE
HUMAN PSYCHE IN THIS NEXT ONE IF
YOU ARE GOING TO DESCRIBE IT IN
CINEMATIC TERMS.
>> I WANT TO LOOK AT THE
HEADLINE RIGHT NOW FROM
WASHINGTONPOST.COM. NEW
TESTIMONY TIES TRUMP MORE
DIRECTLY TO UKRAINE PRESSURE. SO
THAT IS ONE OF THE BIG TAKEAWAYS
THAT HAPPENED RIGHT OFF THE BAT
THIS MORNING, AMBER.
>> RIGHT OFF THE BAT. TAYLOR
FINISHED HIS OPENING STATEMENT
AND HE SAID I WANT TO ADD ONE
MORE THING. THAT IS WHAT WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT RIGHT NOW.
ESSENTIALLY AN AID TO TAYLOR
HEARD PRESIDENT TRUMP OVER THE
PHONE. HE WASN'T TALKING TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP BUT HE HEARD HIM
OVER THE PHONE SAY INVESTIGATION
WHILE THEY WERE IN UKRAINE. SO
IT JUST CONNECTS THINGS A LITTLE
BIT CLOSER TO TRUMP BECAUSE THAT
IS ONE UNANSWERED QUESTION WE
STILL HAVE. WAS TRUMP, WE KNOW
HE WANTED THE INVESTIGATIONS. WE
KNOW THAT HIS ADMINISTRATION
HELD UP MILITARY  AID. WAS TRUMP
THE ONE THAT CONNECTED TWO OR
SOMEONE ELSE?
>> AMBER, TOTALLY, CRITICAL
MOMENT. THE BIG QUESTION IS HOW
MUCH EVIDENCE DO WE HAVE OF THE
PRESIDENT'S BEHAVIOR? AND HOW
MUCH IS SECONDHAND? SO WHAT
TAYLOR DID IS INTRODUCE A BRAND
NEW CHARACTER INTO THE STORY.
SOMEONE WHO SAYS THEY HAVE
FIRSTHAND ACCOUNT OF HEARING THE
PRESIDENT TALK ABOUT
INVESTIGATIONS. AND INQUIRING
ABOUT INVESTIGATIONS.
INVESTIGATIONS THAT WE BELIEVE
OR AT LEAST THESE OFFICIALS
BELIEVE HAVE TO DO WITH THE
BIDENS AND WITH UKRAINIAN
INTERFERENCE IN 2016.
AND SEVEN THE EMBASSY WILL
TESTIFY ON FRIDAY ALSO ENDING
MARK SANDY FOR THE NATIONAL
SECURITY PROGRAM WITH OMB
TESTIFYING WE BELIEVE ON
SATURDAY. HE WAS SUPPOSED TO
TESTIFY ON NOVEMBER 8 BUT DID
NOT SHOW UP.
>> HE HAS BEEN DIFFICULT TO
BRING IN AND IN THE PAST, THEY
HAVE BEEN TELLING THE SAME LINE
AS THE PRESIDENT'S CLOSEST
ADVISORS AND NOT COMING IN AND
TESTIFYING SO WE WILL SEE HOW
THAT TRANSPIRES AND WE OBVIOUSLY
KNOW THAT MEMBERS OF THE
COMMITTEE AND THE DEMOCRATS WANT
TO BRING IN AS MANY PEOPLE AS
THEY CAN AND ESPECIALLY IF THEY
CAN COUNTER THE REPUBLICAN
NARRATIVE THAT WE TALKED TO
PEOPLE WHO DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
ACCESS TO HIGH-LEVEL SENIOR
DECISION MAKING.
>> IN PART, THEY SOUNDED MORE
LIKE PRO TRUMP WHEN I TALK TO
CONGRESS AND SAID I WOULD NOT
TESTIFY AND TAYLOR AND KENT
TESTIFIED
THAT IT WAS BEING HELD UP ON THE
CONFERENCE CALL AND A STAFFER
SAID WE ARE NOT DOING THAT RIGHT
NOW. AGAIN, THEY CAN'T POINTED
TO
TRUMP EXACTLY WHAT HE SAID IN AN
INSTANT, HE PUT IT ALL TOGETHER
THAT HE THINKS THERE IS A QUID
PRO QUO SO DEMOCRATS FEEL LIKE
THERE IS A MISSING LINK TO TRUMP
HIMSELF.
>> ABSOLUTELY AND THAT IS WHERE
THE RUBBER HITS THE ROAD BECAUSE
THEY HOLD THE FIRST STRINGS  AND
THAT HAS BEEN A MISSING TASK AND
IF THEY ARE ABLE TO CLARIFY
BECAUSE WHEN YOU WITHDRAW THIS A
THAT SO MANY DIPLOMATS WERE
TRYING TO SECURE AND MAKE HAPPEN
, IT HAS TO COME WITH AN
EXPLANATION AND THOSE ARE THE
PEOPLE THAT WOULD BE MOST
FAMILIAR WITH THE RATIONALE THAT
WAS OR WAS NOT PROVIDED AT THE
TIME. ABSOLUTELY
,  THAT WILL BE A VERY
INTERESTING THING TO WATCH OUT
FOR HER.
>> WE ARE WATCHING THE WHITE
HOUSE RIGHT NOW AND YOU CAN SEE
THE YELLOW CURTAINS AND WE WILL
SOON BACK OVER  TO WHERE WE
EXPECT PRESIDENT TRUMP TO COME
OUT IN JUST A FEW MINUTES AND
THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY. I WANT
TO TAKE THIS MOMENT
TO THANK EVERYONE. YOU WILL STAY
WITH US UNTIL WE SEE THE LEADERS
COME OUT BUT WE WILL BE BACK
HERE ON FRIDAY AND YOU CAN FIND
US  WASHINGTONPOST.COMAT
AND ALSO ON YOUTUBE. WE WILL BE
BRINGING THESE HEARINGS THIS
WEEK AND NEXT WEEK AS WELL AND
WE WILL BE MARCHING ON AS WE SEE
MORE TESTIMONY BEFORE THE HOUSE
COMMITTEE AND A QUICK TIMELINE
HERE, MORE HEARINGS IN THE HOUSE
NEXT WEEK AND
JOHN, IS ANYTHING STANDING OUT
TO YOU OF WHAT TO WATCH FOR NEXT
WEEK?
>> YEAH, IT IS ALL ABOUT WHO
SHOWS UP AND WHO DOESN'T . THEY
ARE STARTING TO LAY OUT THE
FACTS AND IN A COGENT WAY. I
WILL ALSO BE INTERESTED IN
SEEING
HOW SATISFIED TRUMP IS WITH THE
PERFORMANCE THAT THE REPUBLICANS
PUT ON TODAY AND IF HE VIEWS
THEM AS DEFENDING HIM ENOUGH. IT
WAS INTERESTING
WHEN THE CHAIRMAN ENDED THIS
ALL. HE DID PRAISE BOTH SIDES
FOR BEING RELATIVELY NONPARTISAN
AND NOT REALLY NONPARTISAN BUT
THE BEST WAY TO SAY IT IS
POLITE.
>> HE WAS PROBABLY JUST HAPPY
THAT NO ONE OUT OF THE
WHISTLEBLOWER.
>> RIGHT. THAT WAS OBVIOUSLY AN
ISSUE THAT THEY WERE BRAWLING
ABOUT IN CLOSED-DOOR DEPOSITIONS
SO I THINK WHAT WE WILL SEE IS
THIS TENURE OF RELATIVE MANNERS
AND POLITENESS IF THE
ENVIRONMENT CAN CONTINUE. THERE
WAS BACK AND FORTH BUT AS THE
CHAIRMAN POINTED OUT, WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT IMPEACHMENT IN A
REALLY EXTRAORDINARY PROCESS IN
OUR SYSTEM AND THE FACT THAT
THEY COULD STILL DO IT WITHOUT
BREAKING OUT INTO A FIST FIGHT
,  MAYBE THAT IS SOME DEGREE OF
A SILVER LINING. I DON'T KNOW,
WE WILL SEE.
>> TESTIFY NEXT WEEK WILL BE
GORDON SUMMERLAND.
WE WILL BE BRINGING THAT TO YOU
ALL LIVE NEXT WEEK AND AFTER THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE WRAPS UP
ITS WORK, THEY CREATE A REPORT
THAT CAN BE DONE THE WEEK OF
THANKSGIVING AND THAT WILL GO
OVER TO THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
AND THAT IS WHERE THE ACTION
WILL PICK UP AND WE WILL SEE THE
PROCESS THERE WITH WHAT PEOPLE
HAVE CLASSICALLY THOUGHT OF IN
TERMS OF IMPEACHMENT BECAUSE OF
THE PROCEEDINGS IN THE PAST AT
THAT POINT WE EXPECT THE HOUSE
TO TAKE A VOTE OF ARTICLES OF
IMPEACHMENT
AND THEN IT GOES OVER TO THE
SENATE AND THEN WE SEE A TRIAL
IN THE SENATE AND THAT COULD BE
IN JANUARY AT THIS POINT
ALTHOUGH THE TIMELINE IS HARD TO
PIN DOWN BECAUSE IT IS A MOVING
TARGET.
>> THIS IS A REMARKABLE THING
BUT IT IS LOOKING LIKE CONGRESS
WILL BE DEBATING  IMPEACHING THE
PRESIDENT IN THE YEAR THAT HE IS
UP FOR ELECTION. THAT IS CRAZY
AND IT DOESN'T HAPPEN IN MODERN
HISTORY.
>>
THE IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS,
THIS IS ALL VERY HISTORIC AND WE
WILL CONTINUE TO BRING IT ALL
LIVE. WATCHING THE WHITE HOUSE,
YOU CAN SEE THE FIRST LADY COME
IN AND
THANK YOU SO MUCH TO AMBER AND
JOHN AND ALL OF OUR CONTRIBUTORS
THAT ARE WITH US TODAY. WE WILL
BE WATCHING TO SEE WHEN THE
LEADERS COME IN AND A LOT OF
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP WILL SAY ABOUT THE
PROCEEDINGS. THE WHITE HOUSE
DOWNPLAYED IT INCLUDING
STEPHANIE GRISHAM CALLING THE
WHOLE THING BORING WHICH IS A
STRATEGIC LINE. ONE OF THE SONS
TWEETING ABOUT HOW IT WAS A
SNOOZE FEST SO THAT IS THE
TACTIC THAT REPUBLICANS ARE
TAKING TO TRY TO DOWNPLAY PUBLIC
INTEREST IN THIS. THE WHITE
HOUSE SAID THAT THE PRESIDENT
WAS NOT WATCHING EARLIER BUT HE
WAS TWEETING ABOUT IT.
>> I THINK THEIR ARGUMENT IS
THIS IS BUREAUCRACY MUMBO-JUMBO
AND DON'T PAY ATTENTION.
>> WE WILL SEE WHAT THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
HAS TO SAY ABOUT THIS. HE WILL
BE JOINED BY THE LEADER OF
TURKEY. LET'S GO LIVE TO THE
WHITE HOUSE NOW.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH,
EVERYBODY.
PLEASE, I WANT TO BEGIN BY
WELCOMING THE FIRST LADY WITH US
TODAY
IN THE FIRST LADY OF TURKEY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR BEING
HERE. IT IS A GREAT HONOR TO
HAVE YOU HERE AND WE HAD A
WONDERFUL AND VERY PRODUCTIVE
MEETING. BEFORE WE START, I
WOULD LIKE TO THANK PRESIDENT OR
ONE FOR RELEASING THE DETAINEE
WHO WAS IN DETENTION IN
DIFFERENT FORMS OF DETENTION AND
I APPRECIATE THAT VERY MUCH.
THAT WAS A VERY NICE TRIBUTE AND
HE WILL BE COMING BACK AT SOME
POINT IN THE NOT-TOO-DISTANT
FUTURE SO THAT IS VERY GOOD NEWS
FOR THE UNITED STATES AND ALSO
GOOD NEWS FOR TURKEY. TURKEY AS
EVERYONE KNOWS IS A GREAT NATO
ALLY AND A STRATEGIC PARTNER OF
THE UNITED STATES AROUND THE
WORLD. OUR ECONOMIC RELATIONSHIP
HAS TREMENDOUS POTENTIAL AND
CONTINUES TO EXPAND AND GROW
DIRECT ENGAGEMENT WITH THE
PROMISEE BETWEEN OUR NATION THAT
IS ESSENTIAL TO ENSURING A
FUTURE OF PEACE AND PROSPERITY
AND PROMISE FOR OUR CITIZENS.
OVER THE COURSE OF THE DAY, THE
PRESIDENT AND I HAD A FRANK
CONVERSATION ON IMPORTANT TOPICS
IN THE SITUATION IN SYRIA.
THE NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR
O'BRIEN TO MEET WITH
PRESIDENT PRESIDENT ERDOGAN AND
THE NEGOTIATIONS WERE VERY
SUCCESSFUL  IN THE UNITED STATES
AND TURKEY ACHIEVED A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT ON THAT DAY AND I THINK
WE ARE WORKING TOWARDS GETTING
BETTER AND BETTER. IT IS A
COMPLICATED SITUATION THAT HAS
BEEN GOING ON FOR HUNDREDS OF
YEARS AND TODAY THE CEASE-FIRE
CONTINUES
AND I WANT TO THANK THE
PRESIDENT FOR HIS PARTNERSHIP
AND COOPERATION AS WE WORK TO
BUILD A MORE FEASIBLE AND STABLE
AND PROSPEROUS MIDDLE EAST. WE
HAVE ASSURED EACH OTHER THAT
TURKEY WILL CONTINUE TO UPHOLD
WHAT IT IS SUPPOSED TO UPHOLD.
I'M A BIG FAN OF THE PRESIDENT.
I KNOW THAT THE CEASE-FIRE WHILE
COMPLICATED IS MOVING FORWARD
AND MOVING FORWARD AT A RAPID
PACE. MANY WANT TO SEE THIS WORK
AFTER SO MANY DECADES AND MANY
CENTURIES YOU MIGHT SAY. THE
UNITED STATES AND TURKEY ARE
WORKING EXTENSIVELY IN MANY
OTHER SECURITY ISSUES AND TURKEY
HAS THE SECOND LARGEST ARMED
FORCES IN NATO AFTER THE UNITED
STATES AND THEY ARE A STRONG
SECOND I MIGHT ADD. I AM PLEASED
THAT TURKEY HAS BEEN STEADILY
INCREASING ITS DEFENSE SPENDING
AND IS CLOSE TO THE 2%
OF RANGE UNLIKE MANY OF THE
OTHER COUNTRIES. AT THIS MOMENT,
THEY ARE EIGHT OUT OF THE 28
COUNTRIES THAT ARE CURRENT IN
TERMS OF THEIR OBLIGATIONS
FINANCIALLY. TURKEY HAS MADE A
VITAL CONTRIBUTION TO NATO'S
RESOLUTE SUPPORT MISSION IN
AFGHANISTAN AND ITS PARTNERSHIP
WAS IMPORTANT TO OUR DESTRUCTION
OF ISIS WHEN WE TOOK OUT ALBERT
DADDY AND TAKE HIM OUT WE DID.
TURKEY NEW THAT THERE WERE
CERTAIN AREAS AND WE REALLY
APPRECIATE IT.
THEY HAVE THAT COOPERATION AND
IN THE CONSTANT STRUGGLE AGAINST
TERRORISM, HE FIGHTS IT LIKE WE
DO. THEY HAVE THE SECURITY
COLLABORATION AS THE DEFENSE
WITH THE EQUIPMENT PROGRAM
IN AMERICAN FARM MILITARY SELLS
TO TURKEY TOTAL MANY BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS IN TURKEY
COMPRISE COMPONENT PARTS TO MANY
AMERICAN DEFENSE PROGRAMS AND
MAKES PARTS OF THE FRAME FOR THE
F 35. TURKEY'S ACQUISITION OF
EQUIPMENT CREATES A VERY SERIOUS
CHALLENGE FOR US
AND WE ARE TALKING ABOUT TODAY
AND IN THE FUTURE AND WE WILL
RESOLVE THE SITUATION. WE ARE
ADMINISTERING FOREIGN AFFAIRS
AND SECURITY ADVISORS TO
IMMEDIATELY WORK ON RESOLVING
THE AS/400 ISSUE. WE ALSO AGREED
TO WORK TOWARDS A $100 BILLION
TRADE AGREEMENT
AND SECRETARY ROST IS HERE. I
THINK WE MADE TREMENDOUS
PROGRESS IN THAT. WE HAVE A LOT
OF TRADE WITH TURKEY BUT IT
COULD BE MANY TIMES LARGER
AND TURKEY WOULD LIKE TO SEE
THAT AND IT WOULD BE GOOD FOR
THE UNITED STATES SO WE INTEND
TO BRING IT TO $100 BILLION
AND THAT WOULD BE FOUR TIMES
WHAT IT IS RIGHT NOW. OUR GOAL
IS TO EXPAND COMMERCE BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES AND TURKEY TO
REDUCE THE TRADE DEFICIT AND
ENSURE A FAIR AND RECIPROCAL
RELATIONSHIP. AND FOR THOSE THAT
HAVE ANY INTEREST, WE DISCUSSED
IT TODAY IN THE PAID AGREEMENT
IS MOVING ALONG VERY RAPIDLY.
ONE OF MY CHIEF PRIORITIES HAS
BEEN REMOVING BARRIERS TO TRADE
AND INVESTMENT IN ENDING THE
PRACTICES THAT HARM THE WORKERS.
THEY FURTHER OPEN THAT MARKET
AND THEY ARE DOING THAT.
FOR AMERICAN GOODS AND SERVICES,
THEY ARE OPENING UP RAPIDLY. MR.
PRESIDENT, AS WE HAVE SEEN IN
RECENT WEEKS, THE ALLIANCE CAN
BE A POWERFUL FORCE AND THAT I
LOOK FORWARD TO WORKING WITH YOU
AND I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
BEING HERE AND I HAVE GOT TO
BECOME VERY FAMILIAR AND I
APPRECIATE DOING A FANTASTIC JOB
. I LOOK FORWARD TO CONTINUING A
COMMON GROUND
AND THE ABIDING FRIENDSHIP
BETWEEN OUR NATIONS. WE HAVE A
GREAT RELATIONSHIP BOTH
PERSONALLY AND WITH THE GREAT
COUNTRY OF TURKEY AND WE LOOK
FORWARD TO MOVING IT FORWARD AND
MAKING IT BIGGER AND BETTER.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH. THANK YOU.
>> MR. PRESIDENT, MY DEAR
FRIEND. DISTINGUISH MINISTERS
AND SECRETARIES AND DISTINGUISH
MEMBERS, I WOULD LIKE TO SALUTE
YOU ON BEHALF OF MYSELF AND MY
NATION. FIRST AND FOREMOST, I
WOULD LIKE TO THANK MY DEAR
FRIEND PRESIDENT TRUMP IN THE
FIRST LADY OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR BEING SUCH GRACIOUS HOST
TODAY. WE HAVE MANAGED
TO DISCUSS ALL THE ISSUES IN OUR
AGENDA WITH MR. PRESIDENT ALL
THROUGHOUT THE DAY AND THE
DISCUSSIONS WERE VERY SINCERE.
WE ALL AGREE THAT WE NEED TO
FURTHER HAVE COOPERATION IN THAT
RELATIONSHIP BE DIRECTED UPON A
STRONG AND HEALTHY FOUNDATION. I
THINK WE SHOULD REMAIN RESOLVE
IN ORDER TO OPEN A NEW CHAPTER
IN RELATIONS WHICH ARE IN
COMPLIANCE WITH OUR DEEPLY
ROOTED ALLIANCE. WE HAVE
STATED TO FIGHT TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS IMPOSING A CLEAR
AND PRESENT DANGER UPON OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY. WE HAVE
UNDERLINED THE SIGNIFICANCE OF
FIGHTING AGAINST THIS IN A
SUSTAINED FASHION.
WE HAVE DETAINED SEVERAL
PRISONERS
TRYING TO FLEE THE PRISONS AND
COME TO TURKEY AND WE CURRENTLY
HAVE MORE THAN 200 THAT HAVE
BEEN INCARCERATED AND WITH THE
OPERATION, THIS WAS INITIATED
OCTOBER 9 WITH OTHERS IN STEPS
FORWARD IN A RESOLUTE FASHION.
OUR COUNTRY WITH THIS OPERATION
BLEW A VERY SINITIC IMPACT UPON
THE SEPARATE AGENDA OF TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS.
IN ORDER TO FURTHER STRENGTHEN
OUR COOPERATION, WE BELIEVE WE
HAVE GAINED A CERTIFICATE
MOMENTUM WITH OUR OCTOBER 17
AGREEMENT AND MEMORANDUM. IN
ORDER TO HARNESS RANDOM, THEY
ARE ATTACKING OUR SOLDIERS AND
CIVILIANS IN A PROACTIVE FASHION
AND IN THE LAST 24 HOURS, MORE
THAN 19 ATTACKS ARE HARASSING
AND AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS
MONTH, THERE'S AN EXPLOSIVE
DEVICE
WE HAVE THE 13 MILLION CIVILIAN
LIVES AND DESPITE ALL THESE
ELEMENTS
, WE ARE REITERATING OUR
COMMITMENT TO OUR AGREEMENT IN
SOME CIRCLES ARE EMPATHETIC ARE
DEEPLY UPSET AND DISTURBED AND
USING THIS INFORMATION TO CLOUD
THE PUBLIC OPINION WITH THE
EVENTUAL GAIN
.
AND WE HAVE BEEN USING VISTA
DYNAMITE OUR RELATIONS.
ESPECIALLY WITH THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES THAT WERE PASSED
AND SERVED THIS VERY PURPOSE
WITH THE TURKISH NATION AND THEY
HAVE A POTENTIAL OF CASTING EACH
SHADOW OVER OUR FINANCIAL
RELATIONS AND I HAVE SHARED THIS
INFORMATION WITH MR. PRESIDENT.
THE DECISION-MAKERS HAVE PLACED
ABOUT 104 YEARS AGO SHOULD NOT
BE HISTORIANS. WE HAVE NOTHING
TO HIDE. I NEED TO STATE VERY
CLEARLY THAT WE ARE ON THE SIDE
OF DIALOGUE AND OPEN DISCUSSION
AND DEBATE. WE HAVE VOICED OUR
PROPOSAL TO OPEN AND
ESTABLISH THE HISTORY.
IS THE MOST RELIABLE PARTNER AND
WE ARE THE ONLY ALLY
WHO HAS A VERY RESOLVE FRONT.
WE HAVE SENT THEM BACK TO THEIR
COUNTRY AND HAVE ENTRY TO 7000
THAT ARE CONSIDERED TO BE A
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION. WE HAVE
A TOTAL OF 1020 THAT ARE
INCARCERATED.
WE HAVE WOMEN AND CHILDREN THAT
HAVE FLED THE PRISONS.
OUR COUNTRY IS BEING SHOWCASED
AS A TARGET IN THE ORGANIZATION
AND WE WILL KEEP ON. IT IS VERY
IMPORTANT
TO ASSOCIATE WITH THE ORIGIN. WE
HAVE AN UNDERSTANDING WITH THE
COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN TO DO THIS.
WHEN THE WAR BROKE OUT, WE WERE
THE ONES THAT WERE IMPACTED
HEAVILY.
WE HAVE 650,000 REFUGEES AND A
TOTAL OF MORE THAN FOUR.
WE HAVE ABOUT $40 BILLION EVEN
BEYOND THAT FOR THE REFUGEES IN
OUR COUNTRY.
DESPITE A HIGHER PLEDGE.
WE ARE PROVIDING THIS TO
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE.
BECAUSE OF THE DELAY
, HUNDREDS OF CIVILIAN LIVES
WERE LOST.
PREVIOUSLY WITH OUR OPERATIONS,
WE HAVE MANAGED
.
IT IS VERY IMPORTANT TO REALIZE
THIS.
THEY WERE OPERATIONS AND THROUGH
THESE OPERATIONS, WE HAVE
MANAGED
THESE OPERATIONS TO SECURE IT IN
THE RIGHT TO CONTINUE.
WE ARE SHARING OUR PROJECTS WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND OUR PLAN AND
WITH THE SUPPORT OF THE
COMMUNITY TO HAVE MANY MORE
REFUGEES.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT 44
KILOMETERS IN LENGTH.
1 MILLION MORE INDIVIDUALS CAN
BE HELD.
THEY WERE ATTEMPTED TO DESTROY
TURKEY
AND THIS IS BEHIND IT. THEY HAVE
251 INDIVIDUALS
. THEY HAVE FORMED THE
PARLIAMENT.
THIS WILL MAKE IT MUCH MORE
CHALLENGING TO REACH THIS.
WITHIN THE PROGRAM, WE CAN ONLY
SURMOUNT THIS. THANK YOU FRIENDS
.
WE HAVE THE ACQUISITION OF THE
MISSILE AND WE HAVE CLEARLY
STATED TO PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT
UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WE COULD
ACQUIRE PATRIOTISM. WE ARE READY
AND COMMITTED TO HAVE DIALOGUE
WITH THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS
AND WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP AS
WELL.
I WOULD LIKE TO TAKE THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO THANK EVERYONE
FOR BEING SO GRACIOUS THROUGHOUT
THE DAY. I WOULD LIKE TO THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH
MR. PRESIDENT. I CALLED UP THE
SENATE AND ASKED A COUPLE OF THE
SENATORS AND WE ENDED UP WITH
FIVE AND OTHERS WANTED TO COME
AND WE WILL KEEP THEM APPRISED.
SOME OF THEM JOINED US AND THEY
HAPPEN TO BE HERE. THANK YOU
VERY MUCH
AND TED CRUZ, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH AND LINDSEY GRAHAM, THANK
YOU AND RICK SCOTT. THANK YOU,
RICK VERY MUCH. JONI IS HERE.
THESE ARE PEOPLE THAT WANT TO
SEE PEACE IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND
I THOUGHT IT WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE FOR THEM TO COME
OVER AND MEET WITH THE PRESIDENT
AND WE HAD VERY FRANK DISCUSSION
AND WE ARE DOING WITH THE BIG
SUBJECT AND
WE ARE MAKING A LOT OF
TREMENDOUS PROGRESS IN THE
MIDDLE EAST.
OKAY, A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS, GO
AHEAD.
>> FIRST, I WOULD LIKE TO START
OFF GETTING YOUR GENERAL
REACTION
. DO YOU FEEL THAT THE DEMOCRATS
MADE THEIR CASE
?
>> YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT THE
WITCHHUNT? IS THAT WHAT YOU ARE
TALKING ABOUT? I HEAR IT IS A
JOKE.  I HAVEN'T WATCHED FOR ONE
MINUTE BECAUSE I HAVE BEEN WITH
THE PRESIDENT WHICH IS MUCH MORE
IMPORTANT AS FAR AS I'M
CONCERNED. THIS SHOULD NOT BE
ALLOWED
IN THIS SHOULD NOT HAVE BEEN
ALLOWED TO HAPPEN. I WANT TO
FIND OUT WHO IS THE
WHISTLEBLOWER BECAUSE THE
WHISTLEBLOWER GAVE A LOT OF
INCORRECT INFORMATION INCLUDING
MY CALL WITH THE PRESIDENT OF
UKRAINE WHICH WAS A PERFECT CALL
AND HIGHLY APPROPRIATE AND HE
WROTE SOMETHING THAT WAS MUCH
DIFFERENT THAN THE FACTS. I WANT
TO FIND OUT WHY HE WOULD PRESENT
THAT WHEN ALL THEY HAD TO DO WAS
CHECK THE CALL ITSELF. I WILL BE
RELEASING ON THURSDAY A SECOND
CALL WHICH WAS THE FIRST OF THE
TWO AND YOU WILL MAKE A
DETERMINATION AS TO WHAT YOU
THINK BUT I HAVE HEARD JUST A
REPORT
, THEY SAID IT IS ALL THIRDHAND
INFORMATION AND NOTHING DIRECT
AT ALL. IT CAN'T BE DIRECT
BECAUSE I NEVER SET IT IN ALL I
HAVE TO DO IS LOOK SIMPLY AT THE
TRANSCRIPT. THIS WAS ANALYZED BY
GREAT LAWYERS AND BY GREG JARED
AND MARK LEVAN AND ANALYZED BY
EVERYBODY. THEY SAID THE
STATEMENT THAT I MADE WITH THE
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE WAS A
PERFECT ONE.
THIS COUNTRY GETS THROUGH THAT,
THAT WE HAVE TO WASTE THIS
GENTLEMAN'S TIME BY EVEN
THINKING ABOUT IT OR TALKING
ABOUT IT, I WOULD MUCH RATHER
FOCUS ON PEACE IN THE MIDDLE
EAST AND I HEAR THAT IT IS A
HOAX AND BEING PLAYED AS A HOAX.
THAT IS WHAT I HEAR BUT YOU WILL
HAVE TO TELL ME. GO AHEAD.
>> IF I MAY, ON SYRIA, THEY
WOULD BE SYRIAN REFUGEES AND YOU
HAD THOSE DISCUSSIONS WITH THE
LEADERS?
>> I THINK FRANKLY EUROPE SHOULD
BE PAYING FOR THIS TO A LARGE
EXTENT. AS OF THIS MOMENT,
TURKEY HAS BEEN PAYING FOR MOST
OF IT AND I THINK THE PRESIDENT
WAS SAYING TODAY THAT THEY HAVE
SPENT OVER $40 BILLION  ON THE
COST OF THAT. 40 BILLION. HOW
MUCH? 40?
WHATEVER, HE SPENT A LOT, OKAY,
I HEARD IT WAS 40 BILLION
AND I'VE HEARD THAT NUMBER FROM
OTHERS AND THAT IS A LOT. EUROPE
HAS CONTRIBUTED ABOUT THREE AND
A LOT OF THESE PEOPLE WOULD GO
ALL THROUGHOUT EUROPE AND IT
WOULD BE A DEVASTATING SITUATION
FOR EUROPE BECAUSE THERE ARE 4
MILLION PEOPLE AND HE HAS A LOT
OF COURAGE. THEY ARE HELPING
AND I HAVE SPOKEN TO EUROPE AND
I THINK THEY SHOULD HELP US WITH
ISIS BECAUSE MANY OF THEM LET
FRANCE AND GERMANY AND LEFT THE
UK. THESE COUNTRY SHOULD HELP US
BECAUSE IF THEY EVER DID GET
RELIEF
, THAT'S WHERE THEY WANT TO GO.
THEY WANT TO GO BACK TO FRANCE
AND GERMANY AND THEY ARE NOT
HELPING US. I GAVE THE OPTION TO
HAVE A BACK AND THEY SAID NO
THANK YOU AND THAT'S NOT RIGHT
AND FAIR
THEY HAD SOME ESCAPE WITH THE
HEAVY SHOOTING AND I THINK I
KNOW HOW THEY HAPPENED TO ESCAPE
BUT IT DOESN'T MATTER BECAUSE
TURKEY CAPTURED EVERYBODY THAT
ESCAPED
PLUS AN ADDITIONAL GROUP. WHEN
WE TOOK OVER AND WHEN I BECAME
PRESIDENT, ISIS WAS RAMPANT ALL
OVER THE MIDDLE EAST AND AS OF
ABOUT A MONTH AGO, LINDSAY COULD
SAY THAT WE NOW HAVE 100% AND
THEY HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO DO
THAT AND WHAT WE DID LAST WEEK
WITH OWL WHO IS THE ABSOLUTE
FOUNDER AND LEADER
, SET THEM BACK AND WE ALSO HAVE
THE NUMBER TWO AND SITES ON
NUMBER THREE. THEY WILL NOT BE
GROWING TOO FAST BUT I WILL SAY
TURKEY HAS BEEN HELPING US A
LOT.
>> [ INAUDIBLE QUESTION ]
>> THANK YOU. ON THE CONTRARY ,
FOR CHRISTIAN MINORITIES
, THAT IS WHAT WE ARE ESPECIALLY
SENSITIVE ABOUT AND WE HAVE
DIFFERENT PLANS. WHETHER BE THE
ONES REMAINING UNDECIDED FOR THE
SANCTUARIES
,
THEY WILL BE THERE IN THE
CHURCHES WILL BE REBUILT SO THAT
THEY CAN PRAY AGAIN WHAT THE
PLANS THAT WE ARE MAKING. THE
CHRISTIAN MINORITY ARABIC AND
THE ONES WHO ARE ON OUR SIDE OF
THE BORDER.
THE ONES THAT ARE REMAINING ON
THE SYRIAN SIDE WILL SEE THEIR
FAIR WORSHIPING PRACTICES.
THEY ARE RECEIVING HUMANITARIAN
AID. THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH. WOULD
YOU LIKE TO PICK SOMEBODY?
A FRIENDLY PERSON FROM TURKEY,
PLEASE. ONLY FRIENDLY REPORTERS.
THERE AREN'T MANY OF THEM
AROUND. THANK YOU.
>> [ INAUDIBLE QUESTION ]
>> WE HAD A VERY GOOD TALK
RECENTLY
AND WE ARE WORKING VERY CLOSELY
TOGETHER AND ALSO WORKING
CLOSELY WITH YOUR GREAT
PRESIDENT AND A LOT OF THINGS
ARE HAPPENING. A LOT OF POSITIVE
DEVELOPMENTS ARE HAPPENING AND A
LOT OF THAT HIS DEFINITION. WHAT
IS YOUR DEFINITION OF THE
VARIOUS GROUPS AND THEN YOU HAVE
VARIOUS GROUPS AND SOME LIKE IT
AND SOME DON'T. I THINK WE HAVE
MADE A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
MOMENTUM AND STRENGTH AND
KNOWLEDGE OVER THE LAST YEAR SO
WE WILL SEE WHAT HAPPENS BUT I
WILL SAY THAT THE RELATIONSHIP
WITH MARIE YOVANOVITCH IN TURKEY
HAS BEEN AMAZING. THEY ARE ONE
OF OUR VERY BIG PURCHASES AND
THEY HAVE THE FINEST EQUIPMENT
IN THE WORLD WHICH THE UNITED
STATES
AND THEY UNDERSTAND THAT A LONG
TIME AGO IN A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT
OF PROGRESS IS BEING MADE. YOU
CAN AS THE PRESIDENT THE
QUESTION NOW. ARE YOU SURE YOU
ARE A REPORTER? YOU DON'T WORK
FOR TURKEY WITH THAT QUESTION?
>> MR. PRESIDENT, WE ARE NOT
GETTING THE BEST OF NEWS AND OF
THE UNITED STATES IN THE OFFICE
TARGETING TURKEY
IS EXTENSIVELY INVESTED IN THE
DAILY WORKS BUT I CAN SEE
CERTAIN PRICES THAT THE
GOVERNMENT IS READY TO
UNDERSTAND MORE SO MY QUESTION
IS HOW MUCH DO YOU PERCEIVE THE
SITUATION DEVELOPING WITH THE
ORGANIZATION AND THE AMERICAN
APPROACH IN THAT REGARD?
DURING THIS CURRENT VISIT
, WE WILL SUBMIT AS WE ALREADY
HAVE A GREAT DEAL OF DOCUMENTS
AND THIS IS A TERRORIST
ORGANIZATION WITH THE RINGLEADER
.
THEY TRIED TO UNDERTAKE TO
IN MORE THAN 2000 PEOPLE HAVE
THAT IN THE RINGLEADER IS UNDER
400 RUNNING HIS NETWORK ALL
AROUND THE GLOBE.
IN LIGHT OF THESE DOCUMENTS
, I THINK THEY WILL APPRECIATE
THE SITUATION. WE SENT THEM BACK
IF WE ASK FOR THEM AND I'M SURE
THEY WILL DO THE SAME FOR US.
>> THERE WAS ONE MOMENT IN THE
AID, THERE WAS A PHONE CALL ON
JULY 26 WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
AND HE OVERHEARD  YOU SAY HOW
ARE THINGS GOING WITH THE
PROCEEDINGS WITH THE
INVESTIGATION AND SOMEONE
REPEATED BACK TO YOU THAT
UKRAINE WAS PREPARED TO DO
EVERYTHING THAT YOU WANTED. IS
THAT CORRECT
?
>> I KNOW NOTHING ABOUT THAT.
FIRST TIME I HAVE HEARD IT.  ONE
THING I HAVE SEEN IS THAT HE DID
SPEAK TO ME FOR A BRIEF MOMENT
AND I SAID NO
QUID PRO QUO UNDER ANY
CIRCUMSTANCES AND THAT IS TRUE
BUT THE OTHER, I HAVE NEVER
HEARD THIS AND IN ANY EVENT, IT
IS SECONDHAND INFORMATION.
>> DO YOU RECALL ANY SITUATIONS?
>> NOT EVEN A LITTLE BIT. I
GUESS HE STAYED WITH THEIR
TESTIMONY THAT THERE WAS NO QUID
PRO QUO PEER AND SIMPLE.
>>
THEY SAID YOU LEFT AND THEY URGE
YOU NOT TO LAUNCH MILITARY
ACTION.
HE SAID DON'T BE A TOUGH GUY OR
A FOOL. YOU ADORED THAT LETTER
AND WHAT AHEAD AND LAUNCH
MILITARY ACTION. CAN YOU EXPLAIN
WHY YOU IGNORED THAT WARNING?
>> THIS LETTER WAS REPRESENTED
AND I HAVE ALSO UNDERLINED
THAT OUTLINES
BY OUR COUNTRY SUCH AS THE
UNITED STATES.
THIS HAS BEEN INSTRUMENTAL AND
HE IS
A PERSON FOR THE LEADER THAT IS
CURRENTLY INCARCERATED SO A
PERSON LIKE THIS WOULD NOT BE
WELCOMED IN OUR COUNTRY.
SIMILARLY, THIS PERSON WAS
WELCOMED BY A COUNTRY SUCH AS
RUSSIA. IT IS DIFFICULT FOR ME
TO UNDERSTAND WHEN WE ARE TRYING
TO FIGHT TERRORISM AND IF WE ARE
GOING TO SUSTAIN OUR FIGHT IN A
HEALTHY FASHION, WE NEED TO BE
MUCH MORE SENSITIVE AND IT COULD
HAPPEN TO SOMEONE ELSE TOMORROW.
WE HAVE ALSO PROVIDED
INFORMATION
INCLUDING FOR MR. PRESIDENT AND
WE HAVE POINTED OUT THE FACT
THAT WE DO NOT WANT TERRORISM.
WE GAVE BACK THE LETTER THAT WE
RECEIVED.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH. THANK
YOU VERY MUCH FOR ALL YOU HAVE
DONE
IN FOR THE FIGHT AGAINST ISIS.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH. I
APPRECIATE THAT.
>> MY QUESTION IS
FOR THE INTERVIEW WITH THE
MIDDLE EAST AND ALL MINORITIES.
WHAT IS YOUR POLICY AND A
QUESTION FOR
PRESIDENT ERDOGAN, WHY ARE YOU
NOT ABLE FOR NEGOTIATIONS  IN
SYRIA? THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND I
WILL SAY THAT WE HAVE HAD A
GREAT RELATIONSHIP
WITH THE KURDS AND WE FOUGHT
WITH THEM VERY SUCCESSFULLY
AGAINST ISIS. WE FOUGHT TOGETHER
AND WE HAD GREAT GENERALS AND
EQUIPMENT AND IT CERTAINLY
HELPED A LOT. WE WERE VERY
SUCCESSFUL AND WE CAPTURED
100%. WHEN WE WERE AT 97%, I WAS
GOING TO SAY THAT SOUNDS PRETTY
HIGH TO ME AND I WAS THINKING
ABOUT STOPPING AND A LOT OF
PEOPLE SAID PLEASE GO TO 100 AND
VERY QUICKLY AND RAPIDLY THE
MILITARY GOT TO 100. I WANTED TO
HAVE THAT BUT WE HAVE A GREAT
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE KURDS AND
WE GET ALONG WITH THEM
AND BY THE WAY, I THINK THE
PRESIDENT MAY HAVE SOME FACTIONS
WITHIN THE KURDS
BUT I THINK THE PRESIDENT HAS A
GREAT RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
KURDS. MANY LIVE CURRENTLY IN
TURKEY AND THEY ARE HAPPY AND
ARE TAKING CARE OF INCLUDING
HEALTHCARE. WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT IT BEFORE WITH HEALTHCARE
AND EDUCATION AND OTHER THINGS.
OUR RELATIONSHIP HAS BEEN A VERY
GOOD ONE. THANK YOU.
>> FIRST, WE HAVE TO MAKE A
DECISION. WE HAVE NO PROBLEMS
WITH THE KURDS. WE HAVE PROBLEMS
WITH TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS.
FROM TERRORIST COMING OUT
WHICH ARE OFFSHOOT ORGANIZATIONS
JUST AS WE HAVE NO PROBLEMS WITH
OUR BROTHERS AND SISTERS IN THE
NORTHERN PARTS AND WE HAVE NO
PROBLEMS
WITH OUR BROTHERS AND SISTERS IN
THE NORTHERN PART OF SYRIA. THIS
WAS NOT RECOGNIZED IN THE
NORTHERN PART AND I TOLD HIM
THAT HE WOULD GIVE THESE
INDIVIDUALS PASSPORTS AND HE WAS
MAKING A MISTAKE.
SECONDLY, I WANT YOU TO KNOW
THIS.
THIS IS IN THE TURKISH
PARLIAMENT. WE HAVE PROBLEMS AND
OF COURSE
YOU WILL NOT GIVE UP TO THE
TERRACE, WILL YOU? NO MATTER WHO
THEY MIGHT BE.
THEY DON'T HAVE THE NATIONALITY.
IF YOU DON'T FIGHT BACK THEN YOU
WILL HAVE TO PAY A VERY HEFTY
PRICE. THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH. THANK
YOU.